scalability_and_performance/recommended-performance-scale-practices/recommended-etcd-practices.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="recommended-etcd-practices"]
= Recommended etcd practices
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: recommended-etcd-practices

toc::[]

This topic provides recommended performance and scalability practices for etcd in {product-title}.

include::modules/recommended-etcd-practices.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/4885641[How to use `fio` to check etcd disk performance in {product-title}]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/6271341[etcd performance troubleshooting guide for {product-title}]

include::modules/move-etcd-different-disk.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/architecture/architecture-rhcos.html[Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)]

include::modules/etcd-defrag.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/etcd-tuning-parameters.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
xref:../../nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.adoc#nodes-cluster-enabling-features-about_nodes-cluster-enabling[Understanding feature gates]

include::modules/etcd-increase-db.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Commit message:

[OSDOCS-11996]: Restructuring recommended etcd practices docs

scalability_and_performance/recommended-performance-scale-practices/recommended-etcd-practices.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="recommended-etcd-practices"]
= Recommended etcd practices
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: recommended-etcd-practices

toc::[]

To ensure optimal performance and scalability for etcd in {product-title}, you can complete the following practices.

include::modules/recommended-etcd-practices.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/etcd-verify-hardware.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/4885641[How to use `fio` to check etcd disk performance in {product-title}]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/6271341[etcd performance troubleshooting guide for {product-title}]

include::modules/move-etcd-different-disk.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/architecture/architecture-rhcos.html[Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)]

include::modules/etcd-defrag.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/etcd-tuning-parameters.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* xref:../../nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.adoc#nodes-cluster-enabling-features-about_nodes-cluster-enabling[Understanding feature gates]

include::modules/etcd-increase-db.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
