modules/cnf-configuring-workload-hints.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-low-latency-tuning.adoc
// * scalability_and_performance/low_latency_tuning/cnf-tuning-low-latency-nodes-with-perf-profile.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="configuring-workload-hints_{context}"]
= Configuring node power consumption and realtime processing with workload hints

.Procedure

. Create a `PerformanceProfile` appropriate for the environment's hardware and topology as described in the table in "Understanding workload hints". Adjust the profile to match the expected workload. In this example, we tune for the lowest possible latency.

. Add the `highPowerConsumption` and `realTime` workload hints. Both are set to `true` here.
+
[source,yaml]
----
    apiVersion: performance.openshift.io/v2
    kind: PerformanceProfile
    metadata:
      name: workload-hints
    spec:
      ...
      workloadHints:
        highPowerConsumption: true <1>
        realTime: true <2>
----
<1> If `highPowerConsumption` is `true`, the node is tuned for very low latency at the cost of increased power consumption.
<2> Disables some debugging and monitoring features that can affect system latency.

[NOTE]
====
When the `realTime` workload hint flag is set to `true` in a performance profile, add the `cpu-quota.crio.io: disable` annotation to every guaranteed pod with pinned CPUs. This annotation is necessary to prevent the degradation of the process performance within the pod. If the `realTime` workload hint is not explicitly set then it defaults to `true`.
====

The following table describes how combinations of power consumption and real-time settings impact latency.

.Impact of combinations of power consumption and real-time settings on latency
[cols="1,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Performance Profile creator setting |Hint |Environment |Description

|Default
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
highPowerConsumption: false
realTime: false
----
|High throughput cluster without latency requirements
|Performance achieved through CPU partitioning only.

|Low-latency
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
highPowerConsumption: false
realTime: true
----
|Regional data-centers
|Both energy savings and low-latency are desirable: compromise between power management, latency and throughput.

|Ultra-low-latency
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
highPowerConsumption: true
realTime: true
----
|Far edge clusters, latency critical workloads
|Optimized for absolute minimal latency and maximum determinism at the cost of increased power consumption.

|Per-pod power management
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
realTime: true
highPowerConsumption: false
perPodPowerManagement: true
----
|Critical and non-critical workloads
|Allows for power management per pod.
|===

Commit message:

OCPBUGS-38340 Configuring node power consumption and realtime processing with workload hints

modules/cnf-configuring-workload-hints.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-low-latency-tuning.adoc
// * scalability_and_performance/low_latency_tuning/cnf-tuning-low-latency-nodes-with-perf-profile.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="configuring-workload-hints_{context}"]
= Configuring node power consumption and realtime processing with workload hints

.Procedure

* Create a `PerformanceProfile` appropriate for the environment's hardware and topology by using the Performance Profile Creator (PPC) tool. The following table describes the possible values set for the `power-consumption-mode` flag associated with the PPC tool and the workload hint that is applied. 

.Impact of combinations of power consumption and real-time settings on latency
[cols="1,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Performance Profile creator setting |Hint |Environment |Description

|Default
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
highPowerConsumption: false
realTime: false
----
|High throughput cluster without latency requirements
|Performance achieved through CPU partitioning only.

|Low-latency
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
highPowerConsumption: false
realTime: true
----
|Regional data-centers
|Both energy savings and low-latency are desirable: compromise between power management, latency and throughput.

|Ultra-low-latency
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
highPowerConsumption: true
realTime: true
----
|Far edge clusters, latency critical workloads
|Optimized for absolute minimal latency and maximum determinism at the cost of increased power consumption.

|Per-pod power management
a|[source,terminal]
----
workloadHints:
realTime: true
highPowerConsumption: false
perPodPowerManagement: true
----
|Critical and non-critical workloads
|Allows for power management per pod.
|===

.Example

The following configuration is commonly used in a telco RAN DU deployment. 

[source,yaml]
----
    apiVersion: performance.openshift.io/v2
    kind: PerformanceProfile
    metadata:
      name: workload-hints
    spec:
      ...
      workloadHints:
        realTime: true
        highPowerConsumption: false
        perPodPowerManagement: false <1>
----
<1> Disables some debugging and monitoring features that can affect system latency.

[NOTE]
====
When the `realTime` workload hint flag is set to `true` in a performance profile, add the `cpu-quota.crio.io: disable` annotation to every guaranteed pod with pinned CPUs. This annotation is necessary to prevent the degradation of the process performance within the pod. If the `realTime` workload hint is not explicitly set, it defaults to `true`.
====
