modules/cnf-gathering-data-about-cluster-using-must-gather.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/low_latency_tuning/cnf-tuning-low-latency-nodes-with-perf-profile.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gathering-data-about-your-cluster-using-must-gather_{context}"]
= Gathering data about your cluster using the must-gather command

The Performance Profile Creator (PPC) tool requires `must-gather` data. As a cluster administrator, run the `must-gather` command to capture information about your cluster.

.Prerequisites

* Access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* The OpenShift CLI (`oc`) installed.

.Procedure

. Optional: Verify that a matching machine config pool exists with a label:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe mcp/worker-rt
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Name:         worker-rt
Namespace:
Labels:       machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role=worker-rt
----

. If a matching label does not exist add a label for a machine config pool (MCP) that matches with the MCP name:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label mcp <mcp_name> machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role=<mcp_name>
----

. Navigate to the directory where you want to store the `must-gather` data.

. Collect cluster information by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm must-gather
----

. Optional: Create a compressed file from the `must-gather` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ tar cvaf must-gather.tar.gz must-gather/
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Compressed output is required if you are running the Performance Profile Creator wrapper script.
====

Commit message:

Refactoring the performance profile section for the content improvement initiative

modules/cnf-gathering-data-about-cluster-using-must-gather.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/low_latency_tuning/cnf-tuning-low-latency-nodes-with-perf-profile.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gathering-data-about-your-cluster-using-must-gather_{context}"]
= Gathering data about your cluster for the PPC

The Performance Profile Creator (PPC) tool requires `must-gather` data. As a cluster administrator, run the `must-gather` command to capture information about your cluster.

.Prerequisites

* Access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You identified a target MCP that you want to configure with a performance profile.

.Procedure

. Navigate to the directory where you want to store the `must-gather` data.

. Collect cluster information by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm must-gather
----
+
The command creates a folder with the `must-gather` data in your local directory with a naming format similar to the following: `must-gather.local.1971646453781853027`.

. Optional: Create a compressed file from the `must-gather` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ tar cvaf must-gather.tar.gz <must_gather_folder> <1>
----
<1> Replace with the name of the `must-gather` data folder.
+
[NOTE]
====
Compressed output is required if you are running the Performance Profile Creator wrapper script.
====
