modules/cnf-deploying-the-numa-aware-scheduler.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *scalability_and_performance/cnf-numa-aware-scheduling.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cnf-deploying-the-numa-aware-scheduler_{context}"]
= Deploying the NUMA-aware secondary pod scheduler

After you install the NUMA Resources Operator, do the following to deploy the NUMA-aware secondary pod scheduler:

.Procedure

. Create the `NUMAResourcesScheduler` custom resource that deploys the NUMA-aware custom pod scheduler:

.. Save the following minimal required YAML in the `nro-scheduler.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: nodetopology.openshift.io/v1
kind: NUMAResourcesScheduler
metadata:
  name: numaresourcesscheduler
spec:
  imageSpec: "registry.redhat.io/openshift4/noderesourcetopology-scheduler-rhel9:v{product-version}"
----

.. Create the `NUMAResourcesScheduler` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nro-scheduler.yaml
----

. After a few seconds, run the following command to confirm the successful deployment of the required resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get all -n openshift-numaresources
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/numaresources-controller-manager-7d9d84c58d-qk2mr   1/1     Running   0          12m
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-7d96r                  2/2     Running   0          97s
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-crsht                  2/2     Running   0          97s
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-jp9mw                  2/2     Running   0          97s
pod/secondary-scheduler-847cb74f84-9whlm                1/1     Running   0          10m

NAME                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR                     AGE
daemonset.apps/numaresourcesoperator-worker   3         3         3       3            3           node-role.kubernetes.io/worker=   98s

NAME                                               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/numaresources-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           12m
deployment.apps/secondary-scheduler                1/1     1            1           10m

NAME                                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/numaresources-controller-manager-7d9d84c58d   1         1         1       12m
replicaset.apps/secondary-scheduler-847cb74f84                1         1         1       10m
----

Commit message:

OCPBUGS-41915 lack of explanation regarding numaresources-operator for disconnected environments

modules/cnf-deploying-the-numa-aware-scheduler.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *scalability_and_performance/cnf-numa-aware-scheduling.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cnf-deploying-the-numa-aware-scheduler_{context}"]
= Deploying the NUMA-aware secondary pod scheduler

After you install the NUMA Resources Operator, follow this procedure to deploy the NUMA-aware secondary pod scheduler. 

.Procedure
. Create the `NUMAResourcesScheduler` custom resource that deploys the NUMA-aware custom pod scheduler:

.. Save the following minimal required YAML in the `nro-scheduler.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: nodetopology.openshift.io/v1
kind: NUMAResourcesScheduler
metadata:
  name: numaresourcesscheduler
spec:
  imageSpec: "registry.redhat.io/openshift4/noderesourcetopology-scheduler-rhel9:v{product-version}" <1>
----
+
<1> In a disconnected environment, make sure to configure the resolution of this image by either:

* Creating an `ImageTagMirrorSet` custom resource (CR). For more information, see "Configuring image registry repository mirroring" in the "Additional resources" section.

* Setting the URL to the disconnected registry.

.. Create the `NUMAResourcesScheduler` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nro-scheduler.yaml
----

. After a few seconds, run the following command to confirm the successful deployment of the required resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get all -n openshift-numaresources
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/numaresources-controller-manager-7d9d84c58d-qk2mr   1/1     Running   0          12m
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-7d96r                  2/2     Running   0          97s
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-crsht                  2/2     Running   0          97s
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-jp9mw                  2/2     Running   0          97s
pod/secondary-scheduler-847cb74f84-9whlm                1/1     Running   0          10m

NAME                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR                     AGE
daemonset.apps/numaresourcesoperator-worker   3         3         3       3            3           node-role.kubernetes.io/worker=   98s

NAME                                               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/numaresources-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           12m
deployment.apps/secondary-scheduler                1/1     1            1           10m

NAME                                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/numaresources-controller-manager-7d9d84c58d   1         1         1       12m
replicaset.apps/secondary-scheduler-847cb74f84                1         1         1       10m
----
