modules/configuring-ovnk-use-second-ovs-bridge.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-network-issues.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-ovnk-use-second-ovs-bridge_{context}"]
= Configuring OVN-Kubernetes to use a secondary OVS bridge

You can create an additional or _secondary_ Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge, `br-ex1`, that OVN-Kubernetes manages and the Multiple External Gateways (MEG) implementation uses for defining external gateways for an {product-title} node. You can define a MEG in an `AdminPolicyBasedExternalRoute` custom resource (CR). The MEG implementation provides a pod with access to multiple gateways, equal-cost multipath (ECMP) routes, and the Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) implementation.

Consider a use case for pods impacted by the Multiple External Gateways (MEG) feature and you want to egress traffic to a different interface, for example `br-ex1`, on a node. Egress traffic for pods not impacted by MEG get routed to the default OVS `br-ex` bridge.

You must define the additional bridge in an interface definition of a machine configuration manifest file. The Machine Config Operator uses the manifest to create a new file at `/etc/ovnk/extra_bridge` on the host. The new file includes the name of the network interface that the additional OVS bridge configures for a node.

After you create and edit the manifest file, the Machine Config Operator completes tasks in the following order:

. Drains nodes in singular order based on the selected machine configuration pool.
. Injects Ignition configuration files into each node, so that each node receives the additional `br-ex1` bridge network configuration.
. Verify that the `br-ex` MAC address matches the MAC address for the interface that `br-ex` uses for the network connection.
. Executes the `configure-ovs.sh` shell script that references the new interface definition.
. Adds `br-ex` and `br-ex1` to the host node.
. Uncordons the nodes. 

[NOTE]
====
After all the nodes return to the `Ready` state and the OVN-Kubernetes Operator detects and configures `br-ex` and `br-ex1`, the Operator applies the `k8s.ovn.org/l3-gateway-config` annotation to each node.
====

For more information about useful situations for the additional `br-ex1` bridge and a situation that always requires the default `br-ex` bridge, see "Configuration for a localnet topology".

.Procedure

. Optional: Create an interface connection that your additional bridge, `br-ex1`, can use by completing the following steps. The example steps show the creation of a new bond and its dependent interfaces that are all defined in a machine configuration manifest file. The additional bridge uses the `MachineConfig` object to form a additional bond interface.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not use the Kubernetes NMState Operator to define or a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) manifest file to define the additional interface.

Also ensure that the additional interface or sub-interfaces when defining a `bond` interface are not used by an existing `br-ex` OVN Kubernetes network deployment.
====
+
.. Create the following interface definition files. These files get added to a machine configuration manifest file so that host nodes can access the definition files. 
+
.Example of the first interface definition file that is named `eno1.config`
[source,ini]
----
[connection]
id=eno1
type=ethernet
interface-name=eno1
master=bond1
slave-type=bond
autoconnect=true
autoconnect-priority=20
----
+
.Example of the second interface definition file that is named `eno2.config`
[source,ini]
----
[connection]
id=eno2
type=ethernet
interface-name=eno2
master=bond1
slave-type=bond
autoconnect=true
autoconnect-priority=20
----
+
.Example of the second bond interface definition file that is named `bond1.config`
[source,ini]
----
[connection]
id=bond1
type=bond
interface-name=bond1
autoconnect=true
connection.autoconnect-slaves=1
autoconnect-priority=20

[bond]
mode=802.3ad
miimon=100
xmit_hash_policy="layer3+4"

[ipv4]
method=auto
----
+
.. Convert the definition files to Base64 encoded strings by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ base64 <directory_path>/en01.config
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ base64 <directory_path>/eno2.config
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ base64 <directory_path>/bond1.config
----

. Prepare the environment variables. Replace `<machine_role>` with the node role, such as `worker`, and replace `<interface_name>` with the name of your additional `br-ex` bridge name.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export ROLE=<machine_role>
----

. Define each interface definition in a machine configuration manifest file:
+
.Example of a machine configuration file with definitions added for `bond1`, `eno1`, and `en02`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: ${worker}
  name: 12-${ROLE}-sec-bridge-cni
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:;base64,<base-64-encoded-contents-for-bond1.conf>
        path: /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/bond1.nmconnection
        filesystem: root
        mode: 0600
      - contents:
          source: data:;base64,<base-64-encoded-contents-for-eno1.conf>
        path: /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/eno1.nmconnection
        filesystem: root
        mode: 0600
      - contents:
          source: data:;base64,<base-64-encoded-contents-for-eno2.conf>
        path: /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/eno2.nmconnection
        filesystem: root
        mode: 0600
# ...
----

. Create a machine configuration manifest file for configuring the network plugin by entering the following command in your terminal:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <machine_config_file_name>
----

. Create an Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge, `br-ex1`, on nodes by using the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin to create an `extra_bridge` file`. Ensure that you save the file in the `/etc/ovnk/extra_bridge` path of the host. The file must state the interface name that supports the additional bridge and not the default interface that supports `br-ex`, which holds the primary IP address of the node. 
+
.Example configuration for the `extra_bridge` file, `/etc/ovnk/extra_bridge`, that references a additional interface
[source,text]
----
bond1
----

. Create a machine configuration manifest file that defines the existing static interface that hosts `br-ex1` on any nodes restarted on your cluster:
+
.Example of a machine configuration file that defines `bond1` as the interface for hosting `br-ex1`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: ${worker}
  name: 12-worker-extra-bridge
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
        - path: /etc/ovnk/extra_bridge
          mode: 0420
          overwrite: true
          contents:
            source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8,bond1
          filesystem: root
----

. Apply the machine-configuration to your selected nodes:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <machine_config_file_name>
----

. Optional: You can override the `br-ex` selection logic for nodes by creating a machine configuration file that in turn creates a `/var/lib/ovnk/iface_default_hint` resource. 
+
[NOTE]
====
The resource lists the name of the interface that `br-ex` selects for your cluster. By default, `br-ex` selects the primary interface for a node based on boot order and the IP address subnet in the machine network. Certain machine network configurations might require that `br-ex` continues to select the default interfaces or bonds for a host node.
====
+
.. Create a machine configuration file on the host node to override the default interface.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Only create this machine configuration file for the purposes of changing the `br-ex` selection logic. Using this file to change the IP addresses of existing nodes in your cluster is not supported.
====
+
.Example of a machine configuration file that overrides the default interface
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: ${worker}
  name: 12-worker-br-ex-override
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
        - path: /var/lib/ovnk/iface_default_hint
          mode: 0420
          overwrite: true
          contents:
            source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8,bond0 <1>
          filesystem: root
----
<1> Ensure `bond0` exists on the node before you apply the machine configuration file to the node.
+
.. Before you apply the configuration to all new nodes in your cluster, reboot the host node to verify that `br-ex` selects the intended interface and does not conflict with the new interfaces that you defined on `br-ex1`.
+
.. Apply the machine configuration file to all new nodes in your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <machine_config_file_name>
----

.Verification

. Identify the IP addresses of nodes with the `exgw-ip-addresses` label in your cluster to verify that the nodes use the additional bridge instead of the default bridge:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -o json | grep --color exgw-ip-addresses
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
"k8s.ovn.org/l3-gateway-config":
   \"exgw-ip-address\":\"172.xx.xx.yy/24\",\"next-hops\":[\"xx.xx.xx.xx\"],
----

. Observe that the additional bridge exists on target nodes by reviewing the network interface names on the host node:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name> -- chroot /host sh -c "ip a | grep mtu | grep br-ex"
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Starting pod/worker-1-debug ...
To use host binaries, run `chroot /host`
# ...
5: br-ex: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
6: br-ex1: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
----

. Optional: If you use `/var/lib/ovnk/iface_default_hint`, check that the MAC address of `br-ex` matches the MAC address of the primary selected interface:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name> -- chroot /host sh -c "ip a | grep -A1 -E 'br-ex|bond0'
----
+
.Example output that shows the primary interface for `br-ex` as `bond0`
[source,terminal]
----
Starting pod/worker-1-debug ...
To use host binaries, run `chroot /host`
# ...
sh-5.1# ip a | grep -A1 -E 'br-ex|bond0'
2: bond0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel master ovs-system state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether fa:16:3e:47:99:98 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
--
5: br-ex: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
    link/ether fa:16:3e:47:99:98 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.xx.xx.xx/21 brd 10.xx.xx.255 scope global dynamic noprefixroute br-ex
----

Commit message:

Adds note that MEG and egress are incompatible

modules/configuring-ovnk-use-second-ovs-bridge.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-network-issues.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-ovnk-use-second-ovs-bridge_{context}"]
= Configuring OVN-Kubernetes to use a secondary OVS bridge

You can create an additional or _secondary_ Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge, `br-ex1`, that OVN-Kubernetes manages and the Multiple External Gateways (MEG) implementation uses for defining external gateways for an {product-title} node. You can define a MEG in an `AdminPolicyBasedExternalRoute` custom resource (CR). The MEG implementation provides a pod with access to multiple gateways, equal-cost multipath (ECMP) routes, and the Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) implementation.

Consider a use case for pods impacted by the Multiple External Gateways (MEG) feature and you want to egress traffic to a different interface, for example `br-ex1`, on a node. Egress traffic for pods not impacted by MEG get routed to the default OVS `br-ex` bridge.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Currently, MEG is unsupported for use with other egress features, such as egress IP, egress firewalls, or egress routers. Attempting to use MEG with egress features like egress IP can result in routing and traffic flow conflicts. This occurs because of how OVN-Kubernetes handles routing and source network address translation (SNAT). This results in inconsistent routing and might break connections in some environments where the return path must patch the incoming path.
====

You must define the additional bridge in an interface definition of a machine configuration manifest file. The Machine Config Operator uses the manifest to create a new file at `/etc/ovnk/extra_bridge` on the host. The new file includes the name of the network interface that the additional OVS bridge configures for a node.

After you create and edit the manifest file, the Machine Config Operator completes tasks in the following order:

. Drains nodes in singular order based on the selected machine configuration pool.
. Injects Ignition configuration files into each node, so that each node receives the additional `br-ex1` bridge network configuration.
. Verify that the `br-ex` MAC address matches the MAC address for the interface that `br-ex` uses for the network connection.
. Executes the `configure-ovs.sh` shell script that references the new interface definition.
. Adds `br-ex` and `br-ex1` to the host node.
. Uncordons the nodes. 

[NOTE]
====
After all the nodes return to the `Ready` state and the OVN-Kubernetes Operator detects and configures `br-ex` and `br-ex1`, the Operator applies the `k8s.ovn.org/l3-gateway-config` annotation to each node.
====

For more information about useful situations for the additional `br-ex1` bridge and a situation that always requires the default `br-ex` bridge, see "Configuration for a localnet topology".

.Procedure

. Optional: Create an interface connection that your additional bridge, `br-ex1`, can use by completing the following steps. The example steps show the creation of a new bond and its dependent interfaces that are all defined in a machine configuration manifest file. The additional bridge uses the `MachineConfig` object to form a additional bond interface.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not use the Kubernetes NMState Operator to define or a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) manifest file to define the additional interface.

Also ensure that the additional interface or sub-interfaces when defining a `bond` interface are not used by an existing `br-ex` OVN Kubernetes network deployment.
====
+
.. Create the following interface definition files. These files get added to a machine configuration manifest file so that host nodes can access the definition files. 
+
.Example of the first interface definition file that is named `eno1.config`
[source,ini]
----
[connection]
id=eno1
type=ethernet
interface-name=eno1
master=bond1
slave-type=bond
autoconnect=true
autoconnect-priority=20
----
+
.Example of the second interface definition file that is named `eno2.config`
[source,ini]
----
[connection]
id=eno2
type=ethernet
interface-name=eno2
master=bond1
slave-type=bond
autoconnect=true
autoconnect-priority=20
----
+
.Example of the second bond interface definition file that is named `bond1.config`
[source,ini]
----
[connection]
id=bond1
type=bond
interface-name=bond1
autoconnect=true
connection.autoconnect-slaves=1
autoconnect-priority=20

[bond]
mode=802.3ad
miimon=100
xmit_hash_policy="layer3+4"

[ipv4]
method=auto
----
+
.. Convert the definition files to Base64 encoded strings by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ base64 <directory_path>/en01.config
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ base64 <directory_path>/eno2.config
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ base64 <directory_path>/bond1.config
----

. Prepare the environment variables. Replace `<machine_role>` with the node role, such as `worker`, and replace `<interface_name>` with the name of your additional `br-ex` bridge name.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export ROLE=<machine_role>
----

. Define each interface definition in a machine configuration manifest file:
+
.Example of a machine configuration file with definitions added for `bond1`, `eno1`, and `en02`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: ${worker}
  name: 12-${ROLE}-sec-bridge-cni
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:;base64,<base-64-encoded-contents-for-bond1.conf>
        path: /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/bond1.nmconnection
        filesystem: root
        mode: 0600
      - contents:
          source: data:;base64,<base-64-encoded-contents-for-eno1.conf>
        path: /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/eno1.nmconnection
        filesystem: root
        mode: 0600
      - contents:
          source: data:;base64,<base-64-encoded-contents-for-eno2.conf>
        path: /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/eno2.nmconnection
        filesystem: root
        mode: 0600
# ...
----

. Create a machine configuration manifest file for configuring the network plugin by entering the following command in your terminal:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <machine_config_file_name>
----

. Create an Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge, `br-ex1`, on nodes by using the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin to create an `extra_bridge` file`. Ensure that you save the file in the `/etc/ovnk/extra_bridge` path of the host. The file must state the interface name that supports the additional bridge and not the default interface that supports `br-ex`, which holds the primary IP address of the node. 
+
.Example configuration for the `extra_bridge` file, `/etc/ovnk/extra_bridge`, that references a additional interface
[source,text]
----
bond1
----

. Create a machine configuration manifest file that defines the existing static interface that hosts `br-ex1` on any nodes restarted on your cluster:
+
.Example of a machine configuration file that defines `bond1` as the interface for hosting `br-ex1`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: ${worker}
  name: 12-worker-extra-bridge
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
        - path: /etc/ovnk/extra_bridge
          mode: 0420
          overwrite: true
          contents:
            source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8,bond1
          filesystem: root
----

. Apply the machine-configuration to your selected nodes:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <machine_config_file_name>
----

. Optional: You can override the `br-ex` selection logic for nodes by creating a machine configuration file that in turn creates a `/var/lib/ovnk/iface_default_hint` resource. 
+
[NOTE]
====
The resource lists the name of the interface that `br-ex` selects for your cluster. By default, `br-ex` selects the primary interface for a node based on boot order and the IP address subnet in the machine network. Certain machine network configurations might require that `br-ex` continues to select the default interfaces or bonds for a host node.
====
+
.. Create a machine configuration file on the host node to override the default interface.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Only create this machine configuration file for the purposes of changing the `br-ex` selection logic. Using this file to change the IP addresses of existing nodes in your cluster is not supported.
====
+
.Example of a machine configuration file that overrides the default interface
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: ${worker}
  name: 12-worker-br-ex-override
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
        - path: /var/lib/ovnk/iface_default_hint
          mode: 0420
          overwrite: true
          contents:
            source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8,bond0 <1>
          filesystem: root
----
<1> Ensure `bond0` exists on the node before you apply the machine configuration file to the node.
+
.. Before you apply the configuration to all new nodes in your cluster, reboot the host node to verify that `br-ex` selects the intended interface and does not conflict with the new interfaces that you defined on `br-ex1`.
+
.. Apply the machine configuration file to all new nodes in your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <machine_config_file_name>
----

.Verification

. Identify the IP addresses of nodes with the `exgw-ip-addresses` label in your cluster to verify that the nodes use the additional bridge instead of the default bridge:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -o json | grep --color exgw-ip-addresses
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
"k8s.ovn.org/l3-gateway-config":
   \"exgw-ip-address\":\"172.xx.xx.yy/24\",\"next-hops\":[\"xx.xx.xx.xx\"],
----

. Observe that the additional bridge exists on target nodes by reviewing the network interface names on the host node:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name> -- chroot /host sh -c "ip a | grep mtu | grep br-ex"
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Starting pod/worker-1-debug ...
To use host binaries, run `chroot /host`
# ...
5: br-ex: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
6: br-ex1: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
----

. Optional: If you use `/var/lib/ovnk/iface_default_hint`, check that the MAC address of `br-ex` matches the MAC address of the primary selected interface:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node_name> -- chroot /host sh -c "ip a | grep -A1 -E 'br-ex|bond0'
----
+
.Example output that shows the primary interface for `br-ex` as `bond0`
[source,terminal]
----
Starting pod/worker-1-debug ...
To use host binaries, run `chroot /host`
# ...
sh-5.1# ip a | grep -A1 -E 'br-ex|bond0'
2: bond0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel master ovs-system state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether fa:16:3e:47:99:98 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
--
5: br-ex: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
    link/ether fa:16:3e:47:99:98 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.xx.xx.xx/21 brd 10.xx.xx.255 scope global dynamic noprefixroute br-ex
----
