modules/enabling-additional-enabled-capabilities.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *post_installation_configuration/cluster-capabilities.adoc

[id="setting_additional_enabled_capabilities_{context}"]
= Enabling the cluster capabilities by setting additional enabled capabilities

As a cluster administrator, you can enable the cluster capabilities by setting `additionalEnabledCapabilities`.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. View the additional enabled capabilities by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusterversion version -o jsonpath='{.spec.capabilities.additionalEnabledCapabilities}{"\n"}'
----

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
["openshift-samples"]
----

. To set the `additionalEnabledCapabilities`, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch clusterversion/version --type merge -p '{"spec":{"capabilities":{"additionalEnabledCapabilities":["openshift-samples", "marketplace"]}}}'
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
It is not possible to disable a capability which is already enabled in a cluster. The cluster version Operator (CVO) continues to reconcile the capability which is already enabled in the cluster.
====


If you try to disable a capability, then CVO shows the divergent spec:
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusterversion version -o jsonpath='{.status.conditions[?(@.type=="ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities")]}{"\n"}'
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
{"lastTransitionTime":"2022-07-22T03:14:35Z","message":"The following capabilities could not be disabled: openshift-samples","reason":"CapabilitiesImplicitlyEnabled","status":"True","type":"ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities"}
----

[NOTE]
====
During the cluster upgrades, it is possible that a given capability could be implicitly enabled. If a resource was already running on the cluster before the upgrade, then any capabilities that is part of the resource will be enabled. For example, during a cluster upgrade, a resource that is already running on the cluster has been changed to be part of the `marketplace` capability by the system. Even if a cluster administrator does not explicitly enabled the `marketplace` capability, it is implicitly enabled by the system.
====

Commit message:

OSDOCS-11973: Remove cluster capabilities section from postinstallation docs

modules/enabling-additional-enabled-capabilities.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/overview/cluster-capabilities.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enabling-additional-enabled-capabilities_{context}"]
= Enabling the cluster capabilities by setting additional enabled capabilities

As a cluster administrator, you can enable cluster capabilities any time after a {product-title} installation by setting the `additionalEnabledCapabilities` configuration parameter.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. View the additional enabled capabilities by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusterversion version -o jsonpath='{.spec.capabilities.additionalEnabledCapabilities}{"\n"}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
["openshift-samples"]
----

. To set the `additionalEnabledCapabilities` configuration parameter, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch clusterversion/version --type merge -p '{"spec":{"capabilities":{"additionalEnabledCapabilities":["openshift-samples", "marketplace"]}}}'
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
It is not possible to disable a capability which is already enabled in a cluster. The cluster version Operator (CVO) continues to reconcile the capability which is already enabled in the cluster.
====


If you try to disable a capability, then CVO shows the divergent spec:
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusterversion version -o jsonpath='{.status.conditions[?(@.type=="ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities")]}{"\n"}'
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
{"lastTransitionTime":"2022-07-22T03:14:35Z","message":"The following capabilities could not be disabled: openshift-samples","reason":"CapabilitiesImplicitlyEnabled","status":"True","type":"ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities"}
----

[NOTE]
====
During the cluster upgrades, it is possible that a given capability could be implicitly enabled. If a resource was already running on the cluster before the upgrade, then any capabilities that is part of the resource will be enabled. For example, during a cluster upgrade, a resource that is already running on the cluster has been changed to be part of the `marketplace` capability by the system. Even if a cluster administrator does not explicitly enabled the `marketplace` capability, it is implicitly enabled by the system.
====
