modules/microshift-updating-rpms-z.adoc, before:

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//*  microshift_updating/microshift-update-rpms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-applying-patch-updates-rpms_{context}"]
= Applying patch updates using RPMs

Updating {microshift-short} on non `rpm-ostree` systems such as {op-system-base-full} requires downloading then updating the RPMs. A system reboot is not required for patch updates. For example, use the following procedure to upgrade from 4.17.0 to 4.17.1.

.Prerequisites
* The system requirements for installing {microshift-short} have been met.
* You have root user access to the host.
* The version of {microshift-short} you have is compatible to upgrade to the version you are preparing to use.
* You have verified that your host operating system is compatible with the version of {microshift-short} you are preparing to install.
* You have completed a system backup.

[NOTE]
====
You cannot downgrade {microshift-short} with this process. Downgrades are not supported.
====

.Procedure
* Update the {microshift-short} RPMs by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo dnf update microshift
----

[NOTE]
====
The system health check runs on this update type, but does not perform any actions. If the update fails, an error message appears with the instruction to check the logs.
====

Commit message:

OSDOCS-11877: updates attributes and matrix in MicroShift

modules/microshift-updating-rpms-z.adoc, after:

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//*  microshift_updating/microshift-update-rpms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-applying-patch-updates-rpms_{context}"]
= Applying patch updates using RPMs

Updating {microshift-short} on non `rpm-ostree` systems such as {op-system-base-full} requires downloading then updating the RPMs. For example, use the following procedure to upgrade from 4.17.1 to 4.17.2.

.Prerequisites
* The system requirements for installing {microshift-short} have been met.
* You have root user access to the host.
* The version of {microshift-short} you have is compatible to upgrade to the version you are preparing to use.
* You have verified that your host operating system is compatible with the version of {microshift-short} you are preparing to install.
* You have completed a system backup.

[NOTE]
====
You cannot downgrade {microshift-short} with this process. Downgrades are not supported.
====

.Procedure
* Update the {microshift-short} RPMs by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo dnf update microshift
----
* Restart {microshift-short} by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo systemctl restart microshift
----

[NOTE]
====
The system health check runs on this update type, but does not perform any actions. If the update fails, an error message appears with the instruction to check the logs.
====
