modules/nw-infw-operator-config-object.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ingress-node-firewall-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-infw-operator-config-object_{context}"]
== Ingress Node Firewall configuration object

The fields for the Ingress Node Firewall configuration object are described in the following table:

.Ingress Node Firewall Configuration object
[cols=".^2,.^2,.^6a",options="header"]
|====
|Field|Type|Description

|`metadata.name`
|`string`
|The name of the CR object. The name of the firewall rules object must be `ingressnodefirewallconfig`.

|`metadata.namespace`
|`string`
|Namespace for the Ingress Firewall Operator CR object. The `IngressNodeFirewallConfig` CR must be created inside the `openshift-ingress-node-firewall` namespace.

|`spec.nodeSelector`
|`string`
|
A node selection constraint used to target nodes through specified node labels. For example:

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
----

[NOTE]
====
One label used in `nodeSelector` must match a label on the nodes in order for the daemon set to start. For example, if the node labels `node-role.kubernetes.io/worker` and `node-type.kubernetes.io/vm` are applied to a node, then at least one label must be set using `nodeSelector` for the daemon set to start.
====

|====

[NOTE]
====
The Operator consumes the CR and creates an ingress node firewall daemon set on all the nodes that match the `nodeSelector`.
====

[discrete]
[id="nw-ingress-node-firewall-example-cr-2_{context}"]
== Ingress Node Firewall Operator example configuration

A complete Ingress Node Firewall Configuration is specified in the following example:

.Example Ingress Node Firewall Configuration object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ingressnodefirewall.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: IngressNodeFirewallConfig
metadata:
  name: ingressnodefirewallconfig
  namespace: openshift-ingress-node-firewall
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
----

[NOTE]
====
The Operator consumes the CR and creates an ingress node firewall daemon set on all the nodes that match the `nodeSelector`.
====

Commit message:

OSDOCS-10856: Add bpfman Operator for ingress firewalls
- https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-10856

modules/nw-infw-operator-config-object.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ingress-node-firewall-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-infw-operator-config-object_{context}"]
== Ingress Node Firewall configuration object

The fields for the Ingress Node Firewall configuration object are described in the following table:

.Ingress Node Firewall Configuration object
[cols=".^2,.^2,.^6a",options="header"]
|====
|Field|Type|Description

|`metadata.name`
|`string`
|The name of the CR object. The name of the firewall rules object must be `ingressnodefirewallconfig`.

|`metadata.namespace`
|`string`
|Namespace for the Ingress Firewall Operator CR object. The `IngressNodeFirewallConfig` CR must be created inside the `openshift-ingress-node-firewall` namespace.

|`spec.nodeSelector`
|`string`
|
A node selection constraint used to target nodes through specified node labels. For example:

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
----

[NOTE]
====
One label used in `nodeSelector` must match a label on the nodes in order for the daemon set to start. For example, if the node labels `node-role.kubernetes.io/worker` and `node-type.kubernetes.io/vm` are applied to a node, then at least one label must be set using `nodeSelector` for the daemon set to start.
====

|`spec.ebpfProgramManagerMode`
|`boolean`
|
Specifies if the Node Ingress Firewall Operator uses the eBPF Manager Operator or not to manage eBPF programs. This capability is a Technology Preview feature.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].

|====

[NOTE]
====
The Operator consumes the CR and creates an ingress node firewall daemon set on all the nodes that match the `nodeSelector`.
====

[discrete]
[id="nw-ingress-node-firewall-example-cr-2_{context}"]
== Ingress Node Firewall Operator example configuration

A complete Ingress Node Firewall Configuration is specified in the following example:

.Example Ingress Node Firewall Configuration object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ingressnodefirewall.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: IngressNodeFirewallConfig
metadata:
  name: ingressnodefirewallconfig
  namespace: openshift-ingress-node-firewall
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
----

[NOTE]
====
The Operator consumes the CR and creates an ingress node firewall daemon set on all the nodes that match the `nodeSelector`.
====
