modules/nw-ptp-grandmaster-clock-configuration-reference.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ptp/configuring-ptp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="nw-ptp-grandmaster-clock-configuration-reference_{context}"]
= Grandmaster clock PtpConfig configuration reference

The following reference information describes the configuration options for the `PtpConfig` custom resource (CR) that configures the `linuxptp` services (`ptp4l`, `phc2sys`, `ts2phc`) as a grandmaster clock.

.PtpConfig configuration options for PTP Grandmaster clock
[cols="1,3" options="header"]
|====
|PtpConfig CR field
|Description

|`plugins`
|Specify an array of `.exec.cmdline` options that configure the NIC for grandmaster clock operation. Grandmaster clock configuration requires certain PTP pins to be disabled.

The plugin mechanism allows the PTP Operator to do automated hardware configuration.
For the Intel Westport Channel NIC, when `enableDefaultConfig` is true, The PTP Operator runs a hard-coded script to do the required configuration for the NIC.

|`ptp4lOpts`
|Specify system configuration options for the `ptp4l` service.
The options should not include the network interface name `-i <interface>` and service config file `-f /etc/ptp4l.conf` because the network interface name and the service config file are automatically appended.

|`ptp4lConf`
|Specify the required configuration to start `ptp4l` as a grandmaster clock.
For example, the `ens2f1` interface synchronizes downstream connected devices.
For grandmaster clocks, set `clockClass` to `6` and set `clockAccuracy` to `0x27`.
Set `timeSource` to `0x20` for when receiving the timing signal from a Global navigation satellite system (GNSS).

|`tx_timestamp_timeout`
|Specify the maximum amount of time to wait for the transmit (TX) timestamp from the sender before discarding the data.

|`boundary_clock_jbod`
|Specify the JBOD boundary clock time delay value.
This value is used to correct the time values that are passed between the network time devices.

|`phc2sysOpts`
a|Specify system config options for the `phc2sys` service.
If this field is empty the PTP Operator does not start the `phc2sys` service.
[NOTE]
====
Ensure that the network interface listed here is configured as grandmaster and is referenced as required in the `ts2phcConf` and `ptp4lConf` fields.
====

|`ptpSchedulingPolicy`
|Configure the scheduling policy for `ptp4l` and `phc2sys` processes.
Default value is `SCHED_OTHER`.
Use `SCHED_FIFO` on systems that support FIFO scheduling.

|`ptpSchedulingPriority`
|Set an integer value from 1-65 to configure FIFO priority for `ptp4l` and `phc2sys` processes when `ptpSchedulingPolicy` is set to `SCHED_FIFO`.
The `ptpSchedulingPriority` field is not used when `ptpSchedulingPolicy` is set to `SCHED_OTHER`.

|`ptpClockThreshold`
|Optional.
If `ptpClockThreshold` stanza is not present, default values are used for `ptpClockThreshold` fields.
Stanza shows default `ptpClockThreshold` values. `ptpClockThreshold` values configure how long after the PTP master clock is disconnected before PTP events are triggered.
`holdOverTimeout` is the time value in seconds before the PTP clock event state changes to `FREERUN` when the PTP master clock is disconnected.
The `maxOffsetThreshold` and `minOffsetThreshold` settings configure offset values in nanoseconds that compare against the values for `CLOCK_REALTIME` (`phc2sys`) or master offset (`ptp4l`).
When the `ptp4l` or `phc2sys` offset value is outside this range, the PTP clock state is set to `FREERUN`. When the offset value is within this range, the PTP clock state is set to `LOCKED`.

|`ts2phcConf`
a|Sets the configuration for the `ts2phc` command.

`leapfile` is the default path to the current leap seconds definition file in the PTP Operator container image.

`ts2phc.nmea_serialport` is the serial port device that is connected to the NMEA GPS clock source.
When configured, the GNSS receiver is accessible on `/dev/gnss<id>`.
If the host has multiple GNSS receivers, you can find the correct device by enumerating either of the following devices:

* `/sys/class/net/<eth_port>/device/gnss/`
* `/sys/class/gnss/gnss<id>/device/`

|`ts2phcOpts`
|Set options for the `ts2phc` command.

|`recommend`
|Specify an array of one or more `recommend` objects that define rules on how the `profile` should be applied to nodes.

|`.recommend.profile`
|Specify the `.recommend.profile` object name that is defined in the `profile` section.

|`.recommend.priority`
|Specify the `priority` with an integer value between `0` and `99`.
A larger number gets lower priority, so a priority of `99` is lower than a priority of `10`.
If a node can be matched with multiple profiles according to rules defined in the `match` field, the profile with the higher priority is applied to that node.

|`.recommend.match`
|Specify `.recommend.match` rules with `nodeLabel` or `nodeName` values.

|`.recommend.match.nodeLabel`
|Set `nodeLabel` with the `key` of the `node.Labels` field from the node object by using the `oc get nodes --show-labels` command.
For example, `node-role.kubernetes.io/worker`.

|`.recommend.match.nodeName`
|Set `nodeName` with the value of the `node.Name` field from the node object by using the `oc get nodes` command.
For example, `compute-1.example.com`.
|====

Commit message:

TELCODOCS#2011: Logan Beach NIC support for PTP

modules/nw-ptp-grandmaster-clock-configuration-reference.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ptp/configuring-ptp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="nw-ptp-grandmaster-clock-configuration-reference_{context}"]
= Grandmaster clock PtpConfig configuration reference

The following reference information describes the configuration options for the `PtpConfig` custom resource (CR) that configures the `linuxptp` services (`ptp4l`, `phc2sys`, `ts2phc`) as a grandmaster clock.

.PtpConfig configuration options for PTP Grandmaster clock
[cols="1,3" options="header"]
|====
|PtpConfig CR field
|Description

|`plugins`
|Specify an array of `.exec.cmdline` options that configure the NIC for grandmaster clock operation. Grandmaster clock configuration requires certain PTP pins to be disabled.

The plugin mechanism allows the PTP Operator to do automated hardware configuration.
For the Intel Westport Channel NIC or the Intel Logan Beach NIC, when the `enableDefaultConfig` field is set to `true`, the PTP Operator runs a hard-coded script to do the required configuration for the NIC.

|`ptp4lOpts`
|Specify system configuration options for the `ptp4l` service.
The options should not include the network interface name `-i <interface>` and service config file `-f /etc/ptp4l.conf` because the network interface name and the service config file are automatically appended.

|`ptp4lConf`
|Specify the required configuration to start `ptp4l` as a grandmaster clock.
For example, the `ens2f1` interface synchronizes downstream connected devices.
For grandmaster clocks, set `clockClass` to `6` and set `clockAccuracy` to `0x27`.
Set `timeSource` to `0x20` for when receiving the timing signal from a Global navigation satellite system (GNSS).

|`tx_timestamp_timeout`
|Specify the maximum amount of time to wait for the transmit (TX) timestamp from the sender before discarding the data.

|`boundary_clock_jbod`
|Specify the JBOD boundary clock time delay value.
This value is used to correct the time values that are passed between the network time devices.

|`phc2sysOpts`
a|Specify system config options for the `phc2sys` service.
If this field is empty the PTP Operator does not start the `phc2sys` service.
[NOTE]
====
Ensure that the network interface listed here is configured as grandmaster and is referenced as required in the `ts2phcConf` and `ptp4lConf` fields.
====

|`ptpSchedulingPolicy`
|Configure the scheduling policy for `ptp4l` and `phc2sys` processes.
Default value is `SCHED_OTHER`.
Use `SCHED_FIFO` on systems that support FIFO scheduling.

|`ptpSchedulingPriority`
|Set an integer value from 1-65 to configure FIFO priority for `ptp4l` and `phc2sys` processes when `ptpSchedulingPolicy` is set to `SCHED_FIFO`.
The `ptpSchedulingPriority` field is not used when `ptpSchedulingPolicy` is set to `SCHED_OTHER`.

|`ptpClockThreshold`
|Optional.
If `ptpClockThreshold` stanza is not present, default values are used for `ptpClockThreshold` fields.
Stanza shows default `ptpClockThreshold` values. `ptpClockThreshold` values configure how long after the PTP master clock is disconnected before PTP events are triggered.
`holdOverTimeout` is the time value in seconds before the PTP clock event state changes to `FREERUN` when the PTP master clock is disconnected.
The `maxOffsetThreshold` and `minOffsetThreshold` settings configure offset values in nanoseconds that compare against the values for `CLOCK_REALTIME` (`phc2sys`) or master offset (`ptp4l`).
When the `ptp4l` or `phc2sys` offset value is outside this range, the PTP clock state is set to `FREERUN`. When the offset value is within this range, the PTP clock state is set to `LOCKED`.

|`ts2phcConf`
a|Sets the configuration for the `ts2phc` command.

`leapfile` is the default path to the current leap seconds definition file in the PTP Operator container image.

`ts2phc.nmea_serialport` is the serial port device that is connected to the NMEA GPS clock source.
When configured, the GNSS receiver is accessible on `/dev/gnss<id>`.
If the host has multiple GNSS receivers, you can find the correct device by enumerating either of the following devices:

* `/sys/class/net/<eth_port>/device/gnss/`
* `/sys/class/gnss/gnss<id>/device/`

|`ts2phcOpts`
|Set options for the `ts2phc` command.

|`recommend`
|Specify an array of one or more `recommend` objects that define rules on how the `profile` should be applied to nodes.

|`.recommend.profile`
|Specify the `.recommend.profile` object name that is defined in the `profile` section.

|`.recommend.priority`
|Specify the `priority` with an integer value between `0` and `99`.
A larger number gets lower priority, so a priority of `99` is lower than a priority of `10`.
If a node can be matched with multiple profiles according to rules defined in the `match` field, the profile with the higher priority is applied to that node.

|`.recommend.match`
|Specify `.recommend.match` rules with `nodeLabel` or `nodeName` values.

|`.recommend.match.nodeLabel`
|Set `nodeLabel` with the `key` of the `node.Labels` field from the node object by using the `oc get nodes --show-labels` command.
For example, `node-role.kubernetes.io/worker`.

|`.recommend.match.nodeName`
|Set `nodeName` with the value of the `node.Name` field from the node object by using the `oc get nodes` command.
For example, `compute-1.example.com`.
|====
