modules/nw-sriov-configuring-device.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/hardware_networks/configuring-sriov-device.adoc
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov.adoc
// * virt/post_installation_configuration/virt-post-install-network-config.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "configuring-sriov-device"]
:ocp-sriov:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov"]
:virt-sriov:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-post-install-network-config"]
:virt-sriov:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-sriov-configuring-device_{context}"]
= Configuring SR-IOV network devices

The SR-IOV Network Operator adds the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy.sriovnetwork.openshift.io` CustomResourceDefinition to {product-title}.
You can configure an SR-IOV network device by creating a SriovNetworkNodePolicy custom resource (CR).

[NOTE]
=====
When applying the configuration specified in a `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object, the SR-IOV Operator might drain the nodes, and in some cases, reboot nodes.

It might take several minutes for a configuration change to apply.
=====

.Prerequisites

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed the SR-IOV Network Operator.
* You have enough available nodes in your cluster to handle the evicted workload from drained nodes.
* You have not selected any control plane nodes for SR-IOV network device configuration.

.Procedure

. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object, and then save the YAML in the `<name>-sriov-node-network.yaml` file. Replace `<name>` with the name for this configuration.
ifdef::virt-sriov[]
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: <name> <1>
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator <2>
spec:
  resourceName: <sriov_resource_name> <3>
  nodeSelector:
    feature.node.kubernetes.io/network-sriov.capable: "true" <4>
  priority: <priority> <5>
  mtu: <mtu> <6>
  numVfs: <num> <7>
  nicSelector: <8>
    vendor: "<vendor_code>" <9>
    deviceID: "<device_id>" <10>
    pfNames: ["<pf_name>", ...] <11>
    rootDevices: ["<pci_bus_id>", "..."] <12>
  deviceType: vfio-pci <13>
  isRdma: false <14>
----
<1> Specify a name for the CR object.
<2> Specify the namespace where the SR-IOV Operator is installed.
<3> Specify the resource name of the SR-IOV device plugin. You can create multiple `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` objects for a resource name.
<4> Specify the node selector to select which nodes are configured.
Only SR-IOV network devices on selected nodes are configured. The SR-IOV
Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin and device plugin are deployed only on selected nodes.
<5> Optional: Specify an integer value between `0` and `99`. A smaller number gets higher priority, so a priority of `10` is higher than a priority of `99`. The default value is `99`.
<6> Optional: Specify a value for the maximum transmission unit (MTU) of the virtual function. The maximum MTU value can vary for different NIC models.
<7> Specify the number of the virtual functions (VF) to create for the SR-IOV physical network device. For an Intel network interface controller (NIC), the number of VFs cannot be larger than the total VFs supported by the device. For a Mellanox NIC, the number of VFs cannot be larger than `127`.
<8> The `nicSelector` mapping selects the Ethernet device for the Operator to configure. You do not need to specify values for all the parameters. It is recommended to identify the Ethernet adapter with enough precision to minimize the possibility of selecting an Ethernet device unintentionally.
If you specify `rootDevices`, you must also specify a value for `vendor`, `deviceID`, or `pfNames`.
If you specify both `pfNames` and `rootDevices` at the same time, ensure that they point to an identical device.
<9> Optional: Specify the vendor hex code of the SR-IOV network device. The only allowed values are either `8086` or `15b3`.
<10> Optional: Specify the device hex code of SR-IOV network device. The only allowed values are `158b`, `1015`, `1017`.
<11> Optional: The parameter accepts an array of one or more physical function (PF) names for the Ethernet device.
<12> The parameter accepts an array of one or more PCI bus addresses for the physical function of the Ethernet device. Provide the address in the following format: `0000:02:00.1`.
<13> The `vfio-pci` driver type is required for virtual functions in {VirtProductName}.
<14> Optional: Specify whether to enable remote direct memory access (RDMA) mode. For a Mellanox card, set `isRdma` to `false`. The default value is `false`.
+
[NOTE]
====
If `isRDMA` flag is set to `true`, you can continue to use the RDMA enabled VF as a normal network device.
A device can be used in either mode.
====
endif::virt-sriov[]

. Optional: Label the SR-IOV capable cluster nodes with `SriovNetworkNodePolicy.Spec.NodeSelector` if they are not already labeled. For more information about labeling nodes, see "Understanding how to update labels on nodes".

. Create the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <name>-sriov-node-network.yaml
----
+
where `<name>` specifies the name for this configuration.
+
After applying the configuration update, all the pods in `sriov-network-operator` namespace transition to the `Running` status.

. To verify that the SR-IOV network device is configured, enter the following command. Replace `<node_name>` with the name of a node with the SR-IOV network device that you just configured.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get sriovnetworknodestates -n openshift-sriov-network-operator <node_name> -o jsonpath='{.status.syncStatus}'
----

ifdef::virt-sriov[]
:!virt-sriov:
endif::[]

ifdef::ocp-sriov[]
:!ocp-sriov:
endif::[]

Commit message:

OCPBUGS-38261 SR-IOV drain reboot causes need to be explained

modules/nw-sriov-configuring-device.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/hardware_networks/configuring-sriov-device.adoc
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov.adoc
// * virt/post_installation_configuration/virt-post-install-network-config.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "configuring-sriov-device"]
:ocp-sriov:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov"]
:virt-sriov:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-post-install-network-config"]
:virt-sriov:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-sriov-configuring-device_{context}"]
= Configuring SR-IOV network devices

The SR-IOV Network Operator adds the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy.sriovnetwork.openshift.io` CustomResourceDefinition to {product-title}.
You can configure an SR-IOV network device by creating a SriovNetworkNodePolicy custom resource (CR).

[NOTE]
=====
When applying the configuration specified in a `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object, the SR-IOV Operator might drain the nodes, and in some cases, reboot nodes.
Reboot only happens in the following cases:

* With Mellanox NICs (`mlx5` driver) a node reboot happens every time the number of virtual functions (VFs) increase on a physical function (PF). 
* With Intel NICs, a reboot only happens if the kernel parameters do not include `intel_iommu=on` and `iommu=pt`.

It might take several minutes for a configuration change to apply. 
=====

.Prerequisites

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed the SR-IOV Network Operator.
* You have enough available nodes in your cluster to handle the evicted workload from drained nodes.
* You have not selected any control plane nodes for SR-IOV network device configuration.

.Procedure

. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object, and then save the YAML in the `<name>-sriov-node-network.yaml` file. Replace `<name>` with the name for this configuration.
ifdef::virt-sriov[]
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: <name> <1>
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator <2>
spec:
  resourceName: <sriov_resource_name> <3>
  nodeSelector:
    feature.node.kubernetes.io/network-sriov.capable: "true" <4>
  priority: <priority> <5>
  mtu: <mtu> <6>
  numVfs: <num> <7>
  nicSelector: <8>
    vendor: "<vendor_code>" <9>
    deviceID: "<device_id>" <10>
    pfNames: ["<pf_name>", ...] <11>
    rootDevices: ["<pci_bus_id>", "..."] <12>
  deviceType: vfio-pci <13>
  isRdma: false <14>
----
<1> Specify a name for the CR object.
<2> Specify the namespace where the SR-IOV Operator is installed.
<3> Specify the resource name of the SR-IOV device plugin. You can create multiple `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` objects for a resource name.
<4> Specify the node selector to select which nodes are configured.
Only SR-IOV network devices on selected nodes are configured. The SR-IOV
Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin and device plugin are deployed only on selected nodes.
<5> Optional: Specify an integer value between `0` and `99`. A smaller number gets higher priority, so a priority of `10` is higher than a priority of `99`. The default value is `99`.
<6> Optional: Specify a value for the maximum transmission unit (MTU) of the virtual function. The maximum MTU value can vary for different NIC models.
<7> Specify the number of the virtual functions (VF) to create for the SR-IOV physical network device. For an Intel network interface controller (NIC), the number of VFs cannot be larger than the total VFs supported by the device. For a Mellanox NIC, the number of VFs cannot be larger than `127`.
<8> The `nicSelector` mapping selects the Ethernet device for the Operator to configure. You do not need to specify values for all the parameters. It is recommended to identify the Ethernet adapter with enough precision to minimize the possibility of selecting an Ethernet device unintentionally.
If you specify `rootDevices`, you must also specify a value for `vendor`, `deviceID`, or `pfNames`.
If you specify both `pfNames` and `rootDevices` at the same time, ensure that they point to an identical device.
<9> Optional: Specify the vendor hex code of the SR-IOV network device. The only allowed values are either `8086` or `15b3`.
<10> Optional: Specify the device hex code of SR-IOV network device. The only allowed values are `158b`, `1015`, `1017`.
<11> Optional: The parameter accepts an array of one or more physical function (PF) names for the Ethernet device.
<12> The parameter accepts an array of one or more PCI bus addresses for the physical function of the Ethernet device. Provide the address in the following format: `0000:02:00.1`.
<13> The `vfio-pci` driver type is required for virtual functions in {VirtProductName}.
<14> Optional: Specify whether to enable remote direct memory access (RDMA) mode. For a Mellanox card, set `isRdma` to `false`. The default value is `false`.
+
[NOTE]
====
If `isRDMA` flag is set to `true`, you can continue to use the RDMA enabled VF as a normal network device.
A device can be used in either mode.
====
endif::virt-sriov[]

. Optional: Label the SR-IOV capable cluster nodes with `SriovNetworkNodePolicy.Spec.NodeSelector` if they are not already labeled. For more information about labeling nodes, see "Understanding how to update labels on nodes".

. Create the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <name>-sriov-node-network.yaml
----
+
where `<name>` specifies the name for this configuration.
+
After applying the configuration update, all the pods in `sriov-network-operator` namespace transition to the `Running` status.

. To verify that the SR-IOV network device is configured, enter the following command. Replace `<node_name>` with the name of a node with the SR-IOV network device that you just configured.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get sriovnetworknodestates -n openshift-sriov-network-operator <node_name> -o jsonpath='{.status.syncStatus}'
----

ifdef::virt-sriov[]
:!virt-sriov:
endif::[]

ifdef::ocp-sriov[]
:!ocp-sriov:
endif::[]
