modules/olmv1-forcing-an-update-or-rollback.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/olm_v1/olmv1-installing-an-operator-from-a-catalog.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="olmv1-forcing-an-update-or-rollback_{context}"]
= Forcing an update or rollback

{olmv1} does not support automatic updates to the next major version or rollbacks to an earlier version. If you want to perform a major version update or rollback, you must verify and force the update manually.

[WARNING]
====
You must verify the consequences of forcing a manual update or rollback. Failure to verify a forced update or rollback might have catastrophic consequences such as data loss.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have a catalog installed.
* You have an Operator or extension installed.

.Procedure

. Edit the custom resource (CR) of your Operator or extension as shown in the following example:
+
.Example CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: olm.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1
kind: Operator
metadata:
  name: <operator_name> <1>
spec:
  packageName: <package_name> <2>
  installNamespace: <namespace_name>
  version: <version> <3>
  upgradeConstraintPolicy: Ignore <4>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the Operator or extension, such as `pipelines-operator`
<2> Specifies the package name, such as `openshift-pipelines-operator-rh`.
<3> Specifies the blocked update or rollback version.
<4> Optional: Specifies the upgrade constraint policy. To force an update or rollback, set the field to `Ignore`. If unspecified, the default setting is `Enforce`.

. Apply the changes to your Operator or extensions CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <extension_name>.yaml
----

Commit message:

OCPBUGS#42398: Add the service account spec and to Upgrade edge docs

modules/olmv1-forcing-an-update-or-rollback.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/olm_v1/olmv1-installing-an-operator-from-a-catalog.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="olmv1-forcing-an-update-or-rollback_{context}"]
= Forcing an update or rollback

{olmv1} does not support automatic updates to the next major version or rollbacks to an earlier version. If you want to perform a major version update or rollback, you must verify and force the update manually.

[WARNING]
====
You must verify the consequences of forcing a manual update or rollback. Failure to verify a forced update or rollback might have catastrophic consequences such as data loss.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have a catalog installed.
* You have an Operator or extension installed.
* You have created a service account and assigned enough role-based access controls (RBAC) to install, update, and manage the extension you want to install. For more information, see _Creating a service account_.

.Procedure

. Edit the custom resource (CR) of your Operator or extension as shown in the following example:
+
.Example CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: olm.operatorframework.io/v1alpha1
kind: Operator
metadata:
  name: <operator_name> <1>
spec:
  packageName: <package_name> <2>
  installNamespace: <namespace_name>
  serviceAccount:
    name: <service_account>
  version: <version> <3>
  upgradeConstraintPolicy: Ignore <4>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the Operator or extension, such as `pipelines-operator`
<2> Specifies the package name, such as `openshift-pipelines-operator-rh`.
<3> Specifies the blocked update or rollback version.
<4> Optional: Specifies the upgrade constraint policy. To force an update or rollback, set the field to `Ignore`. If unspecified, the default setting is `Enforce`.

. Apply the changes to your Operator or extensions CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <extension_name>.yaml
----
