modules/osdk-updating-131-to-1361.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/operator_sdk/golang/osdk-golang-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/ansible/osdk-ansible-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/helm/osdk-helm-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/helm/osdk-hybrid-helm-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/java/osdk-java-updating-projects.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-golang-updating-projects"]
:golang:
:type: Go
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-ansible-updating-projects"]
:ansible:
:type: Ansible
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-helm-updating-projects"]
:helm:
:type: Helm
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-hybrid-helm-updating-projects"]
:hybrid:
:type: Hybrid Helm
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-java-updating-projects"]
:java:
:type: Java
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="osdk-upgrading-projects_{context}"]
= Updating {type}-based Operator projects for Operator SDK {osdk_ver}

The following procedure updates an existing {type}-based Operator project for compatibility with {osdk_ver}.

.Prerequisites

* Operator SDK {osdk_ver} installed
* An Operator project created or maintained with Operator SDK {osdk_ver_n1}

.Procedure

// The following few steps should be retained/updated for each new migration procedure, as they're just bumping the OSDK version for each language type.

. Edit your Operator project's Makefile to update the Operator SDK version to {osdk_ver}, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example Makefile
[source,make,subs="attributes+"]
----
# Set the Operator SDK version to use. By default, what is installed on the system is used.
# This is useful for CI or a project to utilize a specific version of the operator-sdk toolkit.
OPERATOR_SDK_VERSION ?= v{osdk_ver} <1>
----
<1> Change the version from `{osdk_ver_n1}` to `{osdk_ver}`.
ifdef::helm[]
. Edit your Operator's Dockerfile to update the Helm Operator version to {osdk_ver}, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example Dockerfile
[source,docker,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/openshift4/ose-helm-rhel9-operator:v{osdk_ver} <1>
----
<1> Update the Helm Operator version from `{osdk_ver_n1}` to `{osdk_ver}`.
endif::[]
ifdef::ansible[]
. Edit your Operator's Dockerfile to update the `ansible-operator` base image version to {osdk_ver}, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example Dockerfile
[source,docker,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/openshift4/ose-ansible-operator:v{osdk_ver}
----
endif::[]
ifdef::golang,hybrid[]
. The `go/v4` plugin is now stable and is the default version used when scaffolding a Go-based Operator. The transition from Golang v2 and v3 plugins to the new Golang v4 plugin introduces significant changes. This migration is designed to enhance your project's functionality and compatibility, reflecting the evolving landscape of Golang development.
+
For more information on the reasoning behind these changes, see link:https://book.kubebuilder.io/migration/v3vsv4#tldr-of-the-new-gov4-plugin[go/v3 vs go/v4] in the Kubebuilder documentation.
+
For a comprehensive understanding of the migration process to the v4 plugin format and detailed migration steps, see link:https://book.kubebuilder.io/migration/manually_migration_guide_gov3_to_gov4[Migration from go/v3 to go/v4 by updating the files manually] in the Kubebuilder documentation.
endif::[]

. The `kustomize/v2` plugin is now stable and is the default version used in the plugin chain when using `go/v4`, `ansible/v1`, `helm/v1`, and `hybrid/v1-alpha` plugins. For more information on this default scaffold, see link:https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/kustomize-v2[Kustomize v2] in the Kubebuilder documentation.

. If your Operator project uses a multi-platform, or multi-archicture, build, replace the existing `docker-buildx` target with following definition in your project Makefile:
+
.Example Makefile
[source,make]
----
docker-buildx:
## Build and push the Docker image for the manager for multi-platform support
	- docker buildx create --name project-v3-builder
	docker buildx use project-v3-builder
	- docker buildx build --push --platform=$(PLATFORMS) --tag ${IMG} -f Dockerfile .
	- docker buildx rm project-v3-builder
----

. You must upgrade the Kubernetes versions in your Operator project to use 1.29. The following changes must be made in your project structure, Makefile, and `go.mod` files.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `go/v3` plugin is being deprecated by Kubebuilder, therefore Operator SDK is also migrating to `go/v4` in a future release.
====

.. Update your `go.mod` file to upgrade your dependencies:
+
[source,go]
----
k8s.io/api v0.29.2
k8s.io/apimachinery v0.29.2
k8s.io/client-go v0.29.2
sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime v0.17.3
----

.. Download the upgraded dependencies by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ go mod tidy
----

ifdef::golang,hybrid[]
.. Projects are now scaffolded with `kube-rbac-proxy` version `0.16.0`. Modify the version of `kube-rbac-proxy` in the scaffolded `config/default/manager_auth_proxy_patch.yaml` file by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
- gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy:v0.15.0
+ gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy:v0.16.0
----
endif::[]

ifdef::golang[]
.. You can now generate a file that contains all the resources built with Kustomize, which are necessary to install this project without its dependencies. Update your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
+ .PHONY: build-installer
+   build-installer: manifests generate kustomize ## Generate a consolidated YAML with CRDs and deployment.
+   	mkdir -p dist
+   	cd config/manager && $(KUSTOMIZE) edit set image controller=${IMG}
+   	$(KUSTOMIZE) build config/default > dist/install.yaml
----

.. Update the `ENVTEST_K8S_VERSION` variable in your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
- ENVTEST_K8S_VERSION = 1.28.3
+ ENVTEST_K8S_VERSION = 1.29.0
----

.. Remove the following section from your Makefile:
+
[source,diff]
----
- GOLANGCI_LINT = $(shell pwd)/bin/golangci-lint
- GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION ?= v1.54.2
- golangci-lint:
- 	@[ -f $(GOLANGCI_LINT) ] || { \
- 	set -e ;\
- 	curl -sSfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/golangci/golangci-lint/master/install.sh | sh -s -- -b $(shell dirname $(GOLANGCI_LINT)) $(GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION) ;\
- 	}
----

.. Update your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
.Makefile changes
[%collapsible]
====
[source,diff]
----
- ## Tool Binaries
- KUBECTL ?= kubectl
- KUSTOMIZE ?= $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize
- CONTROLLER_GEN ?= $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen
- ENVTEST ?= $(LOCALBIN)/setup-envtest
-
- ## Tool Versions
- KUSTOMIZE_VERSION ?= v5.2.1
- CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION ?= v0.13.0
-
- .PHONY: kustomize
- kustomize: $(KUSTOMIZE) ## Download kustomize locally if necessary. If wrong version is installed, it will be removed before downloading.
- $(KUSTOMIZE): $(LOCALBIN)
-   @if test -x $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize && ! $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize version | grep -q $(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION); then \
-   echo "$(LOCALBIN)/kustomize version is not expected $(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION). Removing it before installing."; \
-   rm -rf $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize; \
-   fi
-   test -s $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize || GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) GO111MODULE=on go install sigs.k8s.io/kustomize/kustomize/v5@$(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION)
-
- .PHONY: controller-gen
- controller-gen: $(CONTROLLER_GEN) ## Download controller-gen locally if necessary. If wrong version is installed, it will be overwritten.
- $(CONTROLLER_GEN): $(LOCALBIN)
-   test -s $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen && $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen --version | grep -q $(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION) || \
-   GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) go install sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen@$(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION)
-
- .PHONY: envtest
- envtest: $(ENVTEST) ## Download envtest-setup locally if necessary.
- $(ENVTEST): $(LOCALBIN)
-   test -s $(LOCALBIN)/setup-envtest || GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) go install sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/tools/setup-envtest@latest
+ ## Tool Binaries
+ KUBECTL ?= kubectl
+ KUSTOMIZE ?= $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize-$(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION)
+ CONTROLLER_GEN ?= $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen-$(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION)
+ ENVTEST ?= $(LOCALBIN)/setup-envtest-$(ENVTEST_VERSION)
+ GOLANGCI_LINT = $(LOCALBIN)/golangci-lint-$(GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION)
+
+ ## Tool Versions
+ KUSTOMIZE_VERSION ?= v5.3.0
+ CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION ?= v0.14.0
+ ENVTEST_VERSION ?= release-0.17
+ GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION ?= v1.57.2
+
+ .PHONY: kustomize
+ kustomize: $(KUSTOMIZE) ## Download kustomize locally if necessary.
+ $(KUSTOMIZE): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(KUSTOMIZE),sigs.k8s.io/kustomize/kustomize/v5,$(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION))
+
+ .PHONY: controller-gen
+ controller-gen: $(CONTROLLER_GEN) ## Download controller-gen locally if necessary.
+ $(CONTROLLER_GEN): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(CONTROLLER_GEN),sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen,$(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION))
+
+ .PHONY: envtest
+ envtest: $(ENVTEST) ## Download setup-envtest locally if necessary.
+ $(ENVTEST): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(ENVTEST),sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/tools/setup-envtest,$(ENVTEST_VERSION))
+
+ .PHONY: golangci-lint
+ golangci-lint: $(GOLANGCI_LINT) ## Download golangci-lint locally if necessary.
+ $(GOLANGCI_LINT): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(GOLANGCI_LINT),github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/cmd/golangci-lint,${GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION})
+
+ # go-install-tool will 'go install' any package with custom target and name of binary, if it doesn't exist
+ # $1 - target path with name of binary (ideally with version)
+ # $2 - package url which can be installed
+ # $3 - specific version of package
+ define go-install-tool
+ @[ -f $(1) ] || { \
+ set -e; \
+ package=$(2)@$(3) ;\
+ echo "Downloading $${package}" ;\
+ GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) go install $${package} ;\
+ mv "$$(echo "$(1)" | sed "s/-$(3)$$//")" $(1) ;\
+ }
+ endef
----
====
endif::[]

ifdef::helm[]
. Update the Kustomize version in your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
- curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v5.2.1/kustomize_v5.2.1_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | \
+ curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v5.3.0/kustomize_v5.3.0_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | \
----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-golang-updating-projects"]
:!golang:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-ansible-updating-projects"]
:!ansible:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-helm-updating-projects"]
:!helm:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-hybrid-helm-updating-projects"]
:!hybrid:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-java-updating-projects"]
:!java:
:!type:
endif::[]

Commit message:

Fix OSDK 4.17 base img tags

modules/osdk-updating-131-to-1361.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/operator_sdk/golang/osdk-golang-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/ansible/osdk-ansible-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/helm/osdk-helm-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/helm/osdk-hybrid-helm-updating-projects.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/java/osdk-java-updating-projects.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-golang-updating-projects"]
:golang:
:type: Go
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-ansible-updating-projects"]
:ansible:
:type: Ansible
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-helm-updating-projects"]
:helm:
:type: Helm
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-hybrid-helm-updating-projects"]
:hybrid:
:type: Hybrid Helm
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-java-updating-projects"]
:java:
:type: Java
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="osdk-upgrading-projects_{context}"]
= Updating {type}-based Operator projects for Operator SDK {osdk_ver}

The following procedure updates an existing {type}-based Operator project for compatibility with {osdk_ver}.

.Prerequisites

* Operator SDK {osdk_ver} installed
* An Operator project created or maintained with Operator SDK {osdk_ver_n1}

.Procedure

// The following few steps should be retained/updated for each new migration procedure, as they're just bumping the OSDK version for each language type.

. Edit your Operator project's Makefile to update the Operator SDK version to {osdk_ver}, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example Makefile
[source,make,subs="attributes+"]
----
# Set the Operator SDK version to use. By default, what is installed on the system is used.
# This is useful for CI or a project to utilize a specific version of the operator-sdk toolkit.
OPERATOR_SDK_VERSION ?= v{osdk_ver} <1>
----
<1> Change the version from `{osdk_ver_n1}` to `{osdk_ver}`.
ifdef::helm[]
. Edit your Operator's Dockerfile to update the `ose-helm-rhel9-operator` image tag to `{product-version}`, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example Dockerfile
[source,docker,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/openshift4/ose-helm-rhel9-operator:v{product-version}
----
endif::[]
ifdef::ansible[]
. Edit your Operator's Dockerfile to update the `ose-ansible-operator` image tag to `{product-version}`, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example Dockerfile
[source,docker,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM registry.redhat.io/openshift4/ose-ansible-operator:v{product-version}
----
endif::[]
ifdef::golang,hybrid[]
. The `go/v4` plugin is now stable and is the default version used when scaffolding a Go-based Operator. The transition from Golang v2 and v3 plugins to the new Golang v4 plugin introduces significant changes. This migration is designed to enhance your project's functionality and compatibility, reflecting the evolving landscape of Golang development.
+
For more information on the reasoning behind these changes, see link:https://book.kubebuilder.io/migration/v3vsv4#tldr-of-the-new-gov4-plugin[go/v3 vs go/v4] in the Kubebuilder documentation.
+
For a comprehensive understanding of the migration process to the v4 plugin format and detailed migration steps, see link:https://book.kubebuilder.io/migration/manually_migration_guide_gov3_to_gov4[Migration from go/v3 to go/v4 by updating the files manually] in the Kubebuilder documentation.
endif::[]

. The `kustomize/v2` plugin is now stable and is the default version used in the plugin chain when using `go/v4`, `ansible/v1`, `helm/v1`, and `hybrid/v1-alpha` plugins. For more information on this default scaffold, see link:https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/kustomize-v2[Kustomize v2] in the Kubebuilder documentation.

. If your Operator project uses a multi-platform, or multi-archicture, build, replace the existing `docker-buildx` target with following definition in your project Makefile:
+
.Example Makefile
[source,make]
----
docker-buildx:
## Build and push the Docker image for the manager for multi-platform support
	- docker buildx create --name project-v3-builder
	docker buildx use project-v3-builder
	- docker buildx build --push --platform=$(PLATFORMS) --tag ${IMG} -f Dockerfile .
	- docker buildx rm project-v3-builder
----

. You must upgrade the Kubernetes versions in your Operator project to use 1.29. The following changes must be made in your project structure, Makefile, and `go.mod` files.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `go/v3` plugin is being deprecated by Kubebuilder, therefore Operator SDK is also migrating to `go/v4` in a future release.
====

.. Update your `go.mod` file to upgrade your dependencies:
+
[source,go]
----
k8s.io/api v0.29.2
k8s.io/apimachinery v0.29.2
k8s.io/client-go v0.29.2
sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime v0.17.3
----

.. Download the upgraded dependencies by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ go mod tidy
----

ifdef::golang,hybrid[]
.. Projects are now scaffolded with `kube-rbac-proxy` version `0.16.0`. Modify the version of `kube-rbac-proxy` in the scaffolded `config/default/manager_auth_proxy_patch.yaml` file by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
- gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy:v0.15.0
+ gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy:v0.16.0
----
endif::[]

ifdef::golang[]
.. You can now generate a file that contains all the resources built with Kustomize, which are necessary to install this project without its dependencies. Update your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
+ .PHONY: build-installer
+   build-installer: manifests generate kustomize ## Generate a consolidated YAML with CRDs and deployment.
+   	mkdir -p dist
+   	cd config/manager && $(KUSTOMIZE) edit set image controller=${IMG}
+   	$(KUSTOMIZE) build config/default > dist/install.yaml
----

.. Update the `ENVTEST_K8S_VERSION` variable in your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
- ENVTEST_K8S_VERSION = 1.28.3
+ ENVTEST_K8S_VERSION = 1.29.0
----

.. Remove the following section from your Makefile:
+
[source,diff]
----
- GOLANGCI_LINT = $(shell pwd)/bin/golangci-lint
- GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION ?= v1.54.2
- golangci-lint:
- 	@[ -f $(GOLANGCI_LINT) ] || { \
- 	set -e ;\
- 	curl -sSfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/golangci/golangci-lint/master/install.sh | sh -s -- -b $(shell dirname $(GOLANGCI_LINT)) $(GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION) ;\
- 	}
----

.. Update your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
.Makefile changes
[%collapsible]
====
[source,diff]
----
- ## Tool Binaries
- KUBECTL ?= kubectl
- KUSTOMIZE ?= $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize
- CONTROLLER_GEN ?= $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen
- ENVTEST ?= $(LOCALBIN)/setup-envtest
-
- ## Tool Versions
- KUSTOMIZE_VERSION ?= v5.2.1
- CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION ?= v0.13.0
-
- .PHONY: kustomize
- kustomize: $(KUSTOMIZE) ## Download kustomize locally if necessary. If wrong version is installed, it will be removed before downloading.
- $(KUSTOMIZE): $(LOCALBIN)
-   @if test -x $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize && ! $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize version | grep -q $(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION); then \
-   echo "$(LOCALBIN)/kustomize version is not expected $(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION). Removing it before installing."; \
-   rm -rf $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize; \
-   fi
-   test -s $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize || GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) GO111MODULE=on go install sigs.k8s.io/kustomize/kustomize/v5@$(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION)
-
- .PHONY: controller-gen
- controller-gen: $(CONTROLLER_GEN) ## Download controller-gen locally if necessary. If wrong version is installed, it will be overwritten.
- $(CONTROLLER_GEN): $(LOCALBIN)
-   test -s $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen && $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen --version | grep -q $(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION) || \
-   GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) go install sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen@$(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION)
-
- .PHONY: envtest
- envtest: $(ENVTEST) ## Download envtest-setup locally if necessary.
- $(ENVTEST): $(LOCALBIN)
-   test -s $(LOCALBIN)/setup-envtest || GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) go install sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/tools/setup-envtest@latest
+ ## Tool Binaries
+ KUBECTL ?= kubectl
+ KUSTOMIZE ?= $(LOCALBIN)/kustomize-$(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION)
+ CONTROLLER_GEN ?= $(LOCALBIN)/controller-gen-$(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION)
+ ENVTEST ?= $(LOCALBIN)/setup-envtest-$(ENVTEST_VERSION)
+ GOLANGCI_LINT = $(LOCALBIN)/golangci-lint-$(GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION)
+
+ ## Tool Versions
+ KUSTOMIZE_VERSION ?= v5.3.0
+ CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION ?= v0.14.0
+ ENVTEST_VERSION ?= release-0.17
+ GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION ?= v1.57.2
+
+ .PHONY: kustomize
+ kustomize: $(KUSTOMIZE) ## Download kustomize locally if necessary.
+ $(KUSTOMIZE): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(KUSTOMIZE),sigs.k8s.io/kustomize/kustomize/v5,$(KUSTOMIZE_VERSION))
+
+ .PHONY: controller-gen
+ controller-gen: $(CONTROLLER_GEN) ## Download controller-gen locally if necessary.
+ $(CONTROLLER_GEN): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(CONTROLLER_GEN),sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen,$(CONTROLLER_TOOLS_VERSION))
+
+ .PHONY: envtest
+ envtest: $(ENVTEST) ## Download setup-envtest locally if necessary.
+ $(ENVTEST): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(ENVTEST),sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/tools/setup-envtest,$(ENVTEST_VERSION))
+
+ .PHONY: golangci-lint
+ golangci-lint: $(GOLANGCI_LINT) ## Download golangci-lint locally if necessary.
+ $(GOLANGCI_LINT): $(LOCALBIN)
+ 	$(call go-install-tool,$(GOLANGCI_LINT),github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/cmd/golangci-lint,${GOLANGCI_LINT_VERSION})
+
+ # go-install-tool will 'go install' any package with custom target and name of binary, if it doesn't exist
+ # $1 - target path with name of binary (ideally with version)
+ # $2 - package url which can be installed
+ # $3 - specific version of package
+ define go-install-tool
+ @[ -f $(1) ] || { \
+ set -e; \
+ package=$(2)@$(3) ;\
+ echo "Downloading $${package}" ;\
+ GOBIN=$(LOCALBIN) go install $${package} ;\
+ mv "$$(echo "$(1)" | sed "s/-$(3)$$//")" $(1) ;\
+ }
+ endef
----
====
endif::[]

ifdef::helm[]
. Update the Kustomize version in your Makefile by making the following changes:
+
[source,diff]
----
- curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v5.2.1/kustomize_v5.2.1_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | \
+ curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v5.3.0/kustomize_v5.3.0_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | \
----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-golang-updating-projects"]
:!golang:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-ansible-updating-projects"]
:!ansible:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-helm-updating-projects"]
:!helm:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-hybrid-helm-updating-projects"]
:!hybrid:
:!type:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-java-updating-projects"]
:!java:
:!type:
endif::[]
