modules/ossm-configuring-distr-tracing-tempo.adoc, before:

////
This module is included in the following assemblies:
* service_mesh/v2x/ossm-observability.adoc
////

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-configuring-distr-tracing-tempo_{context}"]
= Configuring the {TempoName} and the {OTELName}

You can expose tracing data to the {TempoName} by appending a named element and the `opentelemetry` provider to the `spec.meshConfig.extensionProviders` specification in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane`. Then, a telemetry custom resource configures Istio proxies to collect trace spans and send them to the OpenTelemetry Collector endpoint.

//As of July 2, 2024, there is no common attribute for OpenTelemetry Collector.

You can create a {OTELName} instance in a mesh namespace and configure it to send tracing data to a tracing platform backend service.

.Prerequisites

* You created a TempoStack instance using the Red Hat {TempoOperator} in the `tracing-system` namespace. For more information, see "Installing {TempoName}".

* You installed the {OTELOperator} in either the recommended namespace or the `openshift-operators` namespace. For more information, see "Installing the {OTELName}".

* If using {SMProductName} 2.5 or earlier, set the `spec.tracing.type` parameter of the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource to `None` so tracing data can be sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector.

.Procedure

. Create an OpenTelemetry Collector instance in a mesh namespace. This example uses the `bookinfo` namespace:
+
.Example OpenTelemetry Collector configuration
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: OpenTelemetryCollector
metadata:
  name: otel
  namespace: bookinfo  # <1>
  annotations:
    sidecar.istio.io/inject: 'true' # <2>
spec:
  mode: deployment
  config: |
    receivers:
      otlp:
        protocols:
          grpc:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4317
    exporters:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "tempo-sample-distributor.tracing-system.svc.cluster.local:4317" # <3>
        tls:
          insecure: true
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          receivers: [otlp]
          processors: []
          exporters: [otlp]
----
<1> Include the namespace in the `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` member list.
<2> The sidecar injection annotation is only required when you enable the `spec.security.dataPlane` parameter for mTLS encryption in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.
<3> In this example, a TempoStack instance is running in the `tracing-system` namespace. You do not have to include the TempoStack namespace, such as`tracing-system`, in the `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` member list.
+
[NOTE]
====
You only need to create one instance of the OpenTelemetry Collector in one of the `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` member namespaces.
====

. Check the `otel-collector` pod log and verify that the pod is running:
+
.Example `otel-collector` pod log check
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -n bookinfo  -l app.kubernetes.io/name=otel-collector
----
+
. Create or update an existing `ServiceMeshControlPlane` custom resource (CR) in the `istio-system` namespace:
+
.Example SMCP custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ServiceMeshControlPlane
apiVersion: maistra.io/v2
metadata:
  name: basic
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  addons:
    grafana:
      enabled: false
    kiali:
      enabled: true
    prometheus:
      enabled: true
  meshConfig:
    extensionProviders:
      - name: otel
        opentelemetry:
          port: 4317
          service: otel-collector.bookinfo.svc.cluster.local
  policy:
    type: Istiod
  telemetry:
    type: Istiod
  version: v2.6
----
+
[NOTE]
====
When upgrading from SMCP 2.5 to 2.6, set the `spec.tracing.type` parameter to `None`:

.Example SMCP `spec.tracing.type` parameter
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  tracing:
    type: None
----
====

. Create a Telemetry resource in the `istio-system` namespace:
+
.Example Telemetry resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: Telemetry
metadata:
  name: mesh-default
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  tracing:
  - providers:
    - name: otel
    randomSamplingPercentage: 100
----

. Verify the `istiod` log.

. Configure the Kiali resource specification to enable a Kiali workload traces dashboard. You can use the dashboard to view tracing query results.
+
.Example Kiali resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kiali
# ...
spec:
  external_services:
    tracing:
      query_timeout: 30 #<1>
      enabled: true
      in_cluster_url: 'http://tempo-sample-query-frontend.tracing-system.svc.cluster.local:16685'
      url: '[Tempo query frontend Route url]'
      use_grpc: true # <2>
----
<1> The default `query_timeout` integer value is 30 seconds. If you set the value to greater than 30 seconds, you must update `.spec.server.write_timeout` in the Kiali CR and add the annotation `haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout=50s` to the Kiali route. Both `.spec.server.write_timeout` and `haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout=` must be greater than `query_timeout`.
<2> If you are not using the default HTTP or gRPC port, replace the `in_cluster_url:` port with your custom port.
+
[NOTE]
====
Kiali 1.73 uses the Jaeger Query API, which causes a longer response time depending on Tempo resource limits. If you see a `Could not fetch spans` error message in the Kiali UI, then check your Tempo configuration or reduce the limit per query in Kiali.
====

. Send requests to your application.

. Verify the `istiod` pod logs and the `otel-collector` pod logs.

[id="configuring-distr-tracing-tempo-mtls-encrypted-namespace_{context}"]
== Configuring the {TempoName} in a mTLS encrypted Service Mesh member namespace

[NOTE]
====
You don't need this additional `DestinationRule` configuration if you created a TempoStack instance in a namespace that is not a Service Mesh member namespace.
====

All traffic is TLS encrypted when you enable Service Mesh `dataPlane` mTLS encryption and you create a TempoStack instance in a Service Mesh member namespace such as `tracing-system-mtls`. This encryption is not expected from the Tempo distributed service and returns a TLS error.

To fix the TLS error, disable the TLS `trafficPolicy` by applying a `DestinationRule` for Tempo and Kiali:

.Example `DestinationRule` Tempo
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: tempo
  namespace: tracing-system-mtls
spec:
  host: "*.tracing-system-mtls.svc.cluster.local"
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: DISABLE
----

.Example `DestinationRule` Kiali
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: kiali
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  host: kiali.istio-system.svc.cluster.local
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: DISABLE
----

Commit message:

OSSM-6958 Correction in Tempo/OTEL chapter about mTLS

modules/ossm-configuring-distr-tracing-tempo.adoc, after:

////
This module is included in the following assemblies:
* service_mesh/v2x/ossm-observability.adoc
////

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-configuring-distr-tracing-tempo_{context}"]
= Configuring the {TempoName} and the {OTELName}

You can expose tracing data to the {TempoName} by appending a named element and the `opentelemetry` provider to the `spec.meshConfig.extensionProviders` specification in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane`. Then, a telemetry custom resource configures Istio proxies to collect trace spans and send them to the OpenTelemetry Collector endpoint.

//As of July 2, 2024, there is no common attribute for OpenTelemetry Collector.

You can create a {OTELName} instance in a mesh namespace and configure it to send tracing data to a tracing platform backend service.

.Prerequisites

* You created a TempoStack instance using the Red Hat {TempoOperator} in the `tracing-system` namespace. For more information, see "Installing {TempoName}".

* You installed the {OTELOperator} in either the recommended namespace or the `openshift-operators` namespace. For more information, see "Installing the {OTELName}".

* If using {SMProductName} 2.5 or earlier, set the `spec.tracing.type` parameter of the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource to `None` so tracing data can be sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector.

.Procedure

. Create an OpenTelemetry Collector instance in a mesh namespace. This example uses the `bookinfo` namespace:
+
.Example OpenTelemetry Collector configuration
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: OpenTelemetryCollector
metadata:
  name: otel
  namespace: bookinfo  # <1>
spec:
  mode: deployment
  config: |
    receivers:
      otlp:
        protocols:
          grpc:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4317
    exporters:
      otlp:
        endpoint: "tempo-sample-distributor.tracing-system.svc.cluster.local:4317" # <2>
        tls:
          insecure: true
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          receivers: [otlp]
          processors: []
          exporters: [otlp]
----
<1> Include the namespace in the `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` member list.
<2> In this example, a TempoStack instance is running in the `tracing-system` namespace. You do not have to include the TempoStack namespace, such as`tracing-system`, in the `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` member list.
+
[NOTE]
====
* Create a single  instance of the OpenTelemetry Collector in one of the `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` member namespaces.
* You can add an `otel-collector` as a part of the mesh by adding `sidecar.istio.io/inject: 'true'` to the `OpenTelemetryCollector` resource.
====

. Check the `otel-collector` pod log and verify that the pod is running:
+
.Example `otel-collector` pod log check
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -n bookinfo  -l app.kubernetes.io/name=otel-collector
----
+
. Create or update an existing `ServiceMeshControlPlane` custom resource (CR) in the `istio-system` namespace:
+
.Example SMCP custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ServiceMeshControlPlane
apiVersion: maistra.io/v2
metadata:
  name: basic
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  addons:
    grafana:
      enabled: false
    kiali:
      enabled: true
    prometheus:
      enabled: true
  meshConfig:
    extensionProviders:
      - name: otel
        opentelemetry:
          port: 4317
          service: otel-collector.bookinfo.svc.cluster.local
  policy:
    type: Istiod
  telemetry:
    type: Istiod
  version: v2.6
----
+
[NOTE]
====
When upgrading from SMCP 2.5 to 2.6, set the `spec.tracing.type` parameter to `None`:

.Example SMCP `spec.tracing.type` parameter
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  tracing:
    type: None
----
====

. Create a Telemetry resource in the `istio-system` namespace:
+
.Example Telemetry resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: Telemetry
metadata:
  name: mesh-default
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  tracing:
  - providers:
    - name: otel
    randomSamplingPercentage: 100
----

. Verify the `istiod` log.

. Configure the Kiali resource specification to enable a Kiali workload traces dashboard. You can use the dashboard to view tracing query results.
+
.Example Kiali resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kiali
# ...
spec:
  external_services:
    tracing:
      query_timeout: 30 #<1>
      enabled: true
      in_cluster_url: 'http://tempo-sample-query-frontend.tracing-system.svc.cluster.local:16685'
      url: '[Tempo query frontend Route url]'
      use_grpc: true # <2>
----
<1> The default `query_timeout` integer value is 30 seconds. If you set the value to greater than 30 seconds, you must update `.spec.server.write_timeout` in the Kiali CR and add the annotation `haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout=50s` to the Kiali route. Both `.spec.server.write_timeout` and `haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout=` must be greater than `query_timeout`.
<2> If you are not using the default HTTP or gRPC port, replace the `in_cluster_url:` port with your custom port.
+
[NOTE]
====
Kiali 1.73 uses the Jaeger Query API, which causes a longer response time depending on Tempo resource limits. If you see a `Could not fetch spans` error message in the Kiali UI, then check your Tempo configuration or reduce the limit per query in Kiali.
====

. Send requests to your application.

. Verify the `istiod` pod logs and the `otel-collector` pod logs.

[id="configuring-otel-collector-mtls-encrypted-namespace_{context}"]
== Configuring the `OpenTelemetryCollector` in a mTLS encrypted Service Mesh member namespace

All traffic is TLS encrypted when you enable Service Mesh `dataPlane` mTLS encryption.

To enable the mesh to communicate with the `OpenTelemetryCollector` service, disable the TLS `trafficPolicy` by applying a `DestinationRule` for the `OpenTelemetryCollector` service:

.Example `DestinationRule` Tempo CR
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: otel-disable-tls
spec:
  host: "otel-collector.bookinfo.svc.cluster.local"
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: DISABLE
----


[id="configuring-distr-tracing-tempo-mtls-encrypted-namespace_{context}"]
== Configuring the {TempoName} in a mTLS encrypted Service Mesh member namespace

[NOTE]
====
You don't need this additional `DestinationRule` configuration if you created a TempoStack instance in a namespace that is not a Service Mesh member namespace.
====

All traffic is TLS encrypted when you enable Service Mesh `dataPlane` mTLS encryption and you create a TempoStack instance in a Service Mesh member namespace such as `tracing-system-mtls`. This encryption is not expected from the Tempo distributed service and returns a TLS error.

To fix the TLS error, disable the TLS `trafficPolicy` by applying a `DestinationRule` for Tempo and Kiali:

.Example `DestinationRule` Tempo
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: tempo
  namespace: tracing-system-mtls
spec:
  host: "*.tracing-system-mtls.svc.cluster.local"
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: DISABLE
----

.Example `DestinationRule` Kiali
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: kiali
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  host: kiali.istio-system.svc.cluster.local
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: DISABLE
----
