modules/registry-common-terms.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * registry/index.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="openshift-registry-common-terms_{context}"]
= Glossary of common terms for {product-registry}

This glossary defines the common terms that are used in the registry content.

container::
Lightweight and executable images that consist software and all its dependencies. Because containers virtualize the operating system, you can run containers in data center, a public or private cloud, or your local host.

Image Registry Operator::
The Image Registry Operator runs in the `openshift-image-registry` namespace, and manages the registry instance in that location.

image repository::
An image repository is a collection of related container images and tags identifying images.

mirror registry::
The mirror registry is a registry that holds the mirror of {product-title} images.

namespace::
A namespace isolates groups of resources within a single cluster.

pod::
The pod is the smallest logical unit in Kubernetes. A pod is comprised of one or more containers to run in a worker node.

private registry::
A registry is a server that implements the container image registry API. A private registry is a registry that requires authentication to allow users access its contents.

public registry::
A registry is a server that implements the container image registry API. A public registry is a registry that serves its contently publicly.

Quay.io::
A public Red Hat Quay Container Registry instance provided and maintained by Red Hat, that serves most of the container images and Operators to {product-title} clusters.

{product-registry}::
{product-registry} is the registry provided by {product-title} to manage images.

registry authentication::
To push and pull images to and from private image repositories, the registry needs to authenticate its users with credentials.

route::
Exposes a service to allow for network access to pods from users and applications outside the {product-title} instance.

scale down::
To decrease the number of replicas.

scale up::
To increase the number of replicas.

service::
A service exposes a running application on a set of pods.

Commit message:

classic to hcp migration topic maps update
commented in the end of section in topic map

applied QE suggestions from gdoc

applied more QE suggestions from gdoc

applied conditions for new hcp distro to assemblies and modules

fixed typo on line 13 of configuring registry operator

replaced namespace as suggested by QE

removed operator pod list

removed space in rosa topic maps

removed spacing in line 39 of checking status of pods

modules/registry-common-terms.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * registry/index.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="openshift-registry-common-terms_{context}"]
= Glossary of common terms for {product-registry}

This glossary defines the common terms that are used in the registry content.

container::
Lightweight and executable images that consist of software and all its dependencies. Because containers virtualize the operating system, you can run containers in a data center, a public or private cloud, or your local host.

ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp[]
Image Registry Operator::
ifdef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
The Image Registry Operator runs in the `CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE` of the management cluster, and manages the registry instance in openshift-image-registry of the cluster.
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
The Image Registry Operator runs in the `openshift-image-registry` namespace, and manages the registry instance in that location.
endif::openshift-rosa[]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp[]

image repository::
An image repository is a collection of related container images and tags identifying images.

mirror registry::
The mirror registry is a registry that holds the mirror of {product-title} images.

namespace::
A namespace isolates groups of resources within a single cluster.

pod::
The pod is the smallest logical unit in Kubernetes. A pod is comprised of one or more containers to run in a worker node.

private registry::
A registry is a server that implements the container image registry API. A private registry is a registry that requires authentication to allow users access its contents.

public registry::
A registry is a server that implements the container image registry API. A public registry is a registry that serves its contently publicly.

Quay.io::
A public Red Hat Quay Container Registry instance provided and maintained by Red Hat, which serves most of the container images and Operators to {product-title} clusters.

{product-registry}::
{product-registry} is the registry provided by {product-title} to manage images.

registry authentication::
To push and pull images to and from private image repositories, the registry needs to authenticate its users with credentials.

route::
Exposes a service to allow for network access to pods from users and applications outside the {product-title} instance.

scale down::
To decrease the number of replicas.

scale up::
To increase the number of replicas.

service::
A service exposes a running application on a set of pods.
