modules/restoring-etcd-snapshot-hosted-cluster.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp_high_availability/hcp-backup-restore-aws.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="restoring-etcd-snapshot-hosted-cluster_{context}"]
= Restoring an etcd snapshot on a hosted cluster

If you have a snapshot of etcd from your hosted cluster, you can restore it. Currently, you can restore an etcd snapshot only during cluster creation.

To restore an etcd snapshot, you modify the output from the `create cluster --render` command and define a `restoreSnapshotURL` value in the etcd section of the `HostedCluster` specification.

.Prerequisites

You took an etcd snapshot on a hosted cluster.

.Procedure

. On the `aws` command-line interface (CLI), create a pre-signed URL so that you can download your etcd snapshot from S3 without passing credentials to the etcd deployment:
+
[source,terminal]
----
ETCD_SNAPSHOT=${ETCD_SNAPSHOT:-"s3://${BUCKET_NAME}/${CLUSTER_NAME}-snapshot.db"}
ETCD_SNAPSHOT_URL=$(aws s3 presign ${ETCD_SNAPSHOT})
----

. Modify the `HostedCluster` specification to refer to the URL:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  etcd:
    managed:
      storage:
        persistentVolume:
          size: 4Gi
        type: PersistentVolume
        restoreSnapshotURL:
        - "${ETCD_SNAPSHOT_URL}"
    managementType: Managed
----

. Ensure that the secret that you referenced from the `spec.secretEncryption.aescbc` value contains the same AES key that you saved in the previous steps.

Commit message:

OSDOCS#12123: Describe the --render usage

modules/restoring-etcd-snapshot-hosted-cluster.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp_high_availability/hcp-backup-restore-aws.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="restoring-etcd-snapshot-hosted-cluster_{context}"]
= Restoring an etcd snapshot on a hosted cluster

If you have a snapshot of etcd from your hosted cluster, you can restore it. Currently, you can restore an etcd snapshot only during cluster creation.

To restore an etcd snapshot, you modify the output from the `create cluster --render` command and define a `restoreSnapshotURL` value in the etcd section of the `HostedCluster` specification.

[NOTE]
====
The `--render` flag in the `hcp create` command does not render the secrets. To render the secrets, you must use both the `--render` and the `--render-sensitive` flags in the `hcp create` command.
====

.Prerequisites

You took an etcd snapshot on a hosted cluster.

.Procedure

. On the `aws` command-line interface (CLI), create a pre-signed URL so that you can download your etcd snapshot from S3 without passing credentials to the etcd deployment:
+
[source,terminal]
----
ETCD_SNAPSHOT=${ETCD_SNAPSHOT:-"s3://${BUCKET_NAME}/${CLUSTER_NAME}-snapshot.db"}
ETCD_SNAPSHOT_URL=$(aws s3 presign ${ETCD_SNAPSHOT})
----

. Modify the `HostedCluster` specification to refer to the URL:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  etcd:
    managed:
      storage:
        persistentVolume:
          size: 4Gi
        type: PersistentVolume
        restoreSnapshotURL:
        - "${ETCD_SNAPSHOT_URL}"
    managementType: Managed
----

. Ensure that the secret that you referenced from the `spec.secretEncryption.aescbc` value contains the same AES key that you saved in the previous steps.
