modules/rosa-sdpolicy-instance-types.adoc, before:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-service-definition.adoc
// * rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-hcp-service-definition.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "rosa-hcp-service-definition"]
:rosa-with-hcp:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="rosa-sdpolicy-instance-types_{context}"]
= Instance types

ifdef::rosa-with-hcp[]
All {hcp-title} clusters require a minimum of 2 worker nodes. All {hcp-title} clusters support a maximum of 250 worker nodes. Shutting down the underlying infrastructure through the cloud provider console is unsupported and can lead to data loss.
endif::rosa-with-hcp[]
ifndef::rosa-with-hcp[]
Single availability zone clusters require a minimum of 3 control plane nodes, 2 infrastructure nodes, and 2 worker nodes deployed to a single availability zone.

Multiple availability zone clusters require a minimum of 3 control plane nodes, 3 infrastructure nodes, and 3 worker nodes. Additional nodes must be purchased in multiples of three to maintain proper node distribution.

All {product-title} clusters support a maximum of 180 worker nodes.

Control plane and infrastructure nodes are deployed and managed by Red{nbsp}Hat. Shutting down the underlying infrastructure through the cloud provider console is unsupported and can lead to data loss. There are at least 3 control plane nodes that handle etcd- and API-related workloads. There are at least 2 infrastructure nodes that handle metrics, routing, the web console, and other workloads. You must not run any workloads on the control and infrastructure nodes. Any workloads you intend to run must be deployed on worker nodes. See the Red{nbsp}Hat Operator support section below for more information about Red{nbsp}Hat workloads that must be deployed on worker nodes.
endif::rosa-with-hcp[]

[NOTE]
====
Approximately one vCPU core and 1 GiB of memory are reserved on each worker node and removed from allocatable resources. This reservation of resources is necessary to run processes required by the underlying platform. These processes include system daemons such as udev, kubelet, and container runtime among others. The reserved resources also account for kernel reservations.

{OCP} core systems such as audit log aggregation, metrics collection, DNS, image registry, SDN, and others might consume additional allocatable resources to maintain the stability and maintainability of the cluster. The additional resources consumed might vary based on usage.

For additional information, see the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reserve-compute-resources/#system-reserved[Kubernetes documentation].
====

ifeval::["{context}" == "rosa-hcp-service-definition"]
:!rosa-with-hcp:
endif::[]

Commit message:

OSDOCS-12013 specified z-stream version to scale to 250 nodes in HCP

modules/rosa-sdpolicy-instance-types.adoc, after:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-service-definition.adoc
// * rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-hcp-service-definition.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "rosa-hcp-service-definition"]
:rosa-with-hcp:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="rosa-sdpolicy-instance-types_{context}"]
= Instance types

ifdef::rosa-with-hcp[]
All {hcp-title} clusters require a minimum of 2 worker nodes. All {hcp-title} clusters support a maximum of 250 worker nodes. Shutting down the underlying infrastructure through the cloud provider console is unsupported and can lead to data loss.

[NOTE]
====
Customers running {hcp-title} 4.14.x and 4.15.x clusters require a minimum z-stream version of 4.14.28 or 4.15.15 and greater to scale to 250 worker nodes. For earlier versions, the maximum is 90 worker nodes. 
====

endif::rosa-with-hcp[]
ifndef::rosa-with-hcp[]
Single availability zone clusters require a minimum of 3 control plane nodes, 2 infrastructure nodes, and 2 worker nodes deployed to a single availability zone.

Multiple availability zone clusters require a minimum of 3 control plane nodes, 3 infrastructure nodes, and 3 worker nodes. Additional nodes must be purchased in multiples of three to maintain proper node distribution.

All {product-title} clusters support a maximum of 180 worker nodes.

Control plane and infrastructure nodes are deployed and managed by Red{nbsp}Hat. Shutting down the underlying infrastructure through the cloud provider console is unsupported and can lead to data loss. There are at least 3 control plane nodes that handle etcd- and API-related workloads. There are at least 2 infrastructure nodes that handle metrics, routing, the web console, and other workloads. You must not run any workloads on the control and infrastructure nodes. Any workloads you intend to run must be deployed on worker nodes. See the Red{nbsp}Hat Operator support section below for more information about Red{nbsp}Hat workloads that must be deployed on worker nodes.
endif::rosa-with-hcp[]

[NOTE]
====
Approximately one vCPU core and 1 GiB of memory are reserved on each worker node and removed from allocatable resources. This reservation of resources is necessary to run processes required by the underlying platform. These processes include system daemons such as udev, kubelet, and container runtime among others. The reserved resources also account for kernel reservations.

{OCP} core systems such as audit log aggregation, metrics collection, DNS, image registry, SDN, and others might consume additional allocatable resources to maintain the stability and maintainability of the cluster. The additional resources consumed might vary based on usage.

For additional information, see the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reserve-compute-resources/#system-reserved[Kubernetes documentation].
====

ifeval::["{context}" == "rosa-hcp-service-definition"]
:!rosa-with-hcp:
endif::[]
