modules/rosa-hcp-cluster-terraform-file-creation.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-hcp-creating-a-cluster-quickly-terraform.adoc
//
:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="rosa-hcp-cluster-terraform-file-creation_{context}"]
= Creating your Terraform files locally

After you set up your link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/token[offline {cluster-manager-first} token], you need to create the Terraform files locally to build your cluster. You can create these files by using the following code templates.

.Procedure

. Create the `main.tf` file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat<<-EOF>main.tf
#
# Copyright (c) 2023 Red Hat, Inc.
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = ">= 4.20.0"
    }
    rhcs = {
      version = ">= 1.6.2"
      source  = "terraform-redhat/rhcs"
    }
  }
}

# Export token using the RHCS_TOKEN environment variable
provider "rhcs" {}

provider "aws" {
  region = var.aws_region
  ignore_tags {
    key_prefixes = ["kubernetes.io/"]
  }
  default_tags {
    tags = var.default_aws_tags
  }
}

data "aws_availability_zones" "available" {}

locals {
  # Extract availability zone names for the specified region, limit it to 3 if multi az or 1 if single
  region_azs = var.multi_az ? slice([for zone in data.aws_availability_zones.available.names : format("%s", zone)], 0, 3) : slice([for zone in data.aws_availability_zones.available.names : format("%s", zone)], 0, 1)
}

resource "random_string" "random_name" {
  length  = 6
  special = false
  upper   = false
}

locals {
  worker_node_replicas = var.multi_az ? 3 : 2
  # If cluster_name is not null, use that, otherwise generate a random cluster name
  cluster_name = coalesce(var.cluster_name, "rosa-\${random_string.random_name.result}")
}

# The network validator requires an additional 60 seconds to validate Terraform clusters.
resource "time_sleep" "wait_60_seconds" {
  count = var.create_vpc ? 1 : 0
  depends_on = [module.vpc]
  create_duration = "60s"
}

module "rosa-hcp" {
  source                 = "terraform-redhat/rosa-hcp/rhcs"
  version                = "1.6.2"
  cluster_name           = local.cluster_name
  openshift_version      = var.openshift_version
  account_role_prefix    = local.cluster_name
  operator_role_prefix   = local.cluster_name
  replicas               = local.worker_node_replicas
  aws_availability_zones = local.region_azs
  create_oidc            = true
  private                = var.private_cluster
  aws_subnet_ids         = var.create_vpc ? var.private_cluster ? module.vpc[0].private_subnets : concat(module.vpc[0].public_subnets, module.vpc[0].private_subnets) : var.aws_subnet_ids
  create_account_roles   = true
  create_operator_roles  = true
    
  depends_on = [time_sleep.wait_60_seconds]
}
EOF
----

. Create the `variables.tf` file by running the following command:
+
[NOTE]
====
Copy and edit this file _before_ running the command to build your cluster.
====
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat<<-EOF>variables.tf
#
# Copyright (c) 2023 Red Hat, Inc.
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
variable "openshift_version" {
  type        = string
  default     = "4.14.20"
  description = "Desired version of OpenShift for the cluster, for example '4.14.20'. If version is greater than the currently running version, an upgrade will be scheduled."
}

variable "create_vpc" {
  type        = bool
  description = "If you would like to create a new VPC, set this value to 'true'. If you do not want to create a new VPC, set this value to 'false'."
}

# ROSA Cluster info
variable "cluster_name" {
  default     = null
  type        = string
  description = "The name of the ROSA cluster to create"
}

variable "additional_tags" {
  default = {
    Terraform   = "true"
    Environment = "dev"
  }
  description = "Additional AWS resource tags"
  type        = map(string)
}

variable "multi_az" {
  type        = bool
  description = "Multi AZ Cluster for High Availability"
  default     = true
}

variable "worker_node_replicas" {
  default     = 3
  description = "Number of worker nodes to provision. Single zone clusters need at least 2 nodes, multizone clusters need at least 3 nodes"
  type        = number
}

variable "aws_subnet_ids" {
  type        = list(any)
  description = "A list of either the public or public + private subnet IDs to use for the cluster blocks to use for the cluster"
  default     = ["subnet-01234567890abcdef", "subnet-01234567890abcdef", "subnet-01234567890abcdef"]
}

variable "private_cluster" {
  type        = bool
  description = "If you want to create a private cluster, set this value to 'true'. If you want a publicly available cluster, set this value to 'false'."
}

#VPC Info
variable "vpc_name" {
  type        = string
  description = "VPC Name"
  default     = "tf-qs-vpc"
}

variable "vpc_cidr_block" {
  type        = string
  description = "value of the CIDR block to use for the VPC"
  default     = "10.0.0.0/16"
}

variable "private_subnet_cidrs" {
  type        = list(any)
  description = "The CIDR blocks to use for the private subnets"
  default     = ["10.0.1.0/24", "10.0.2.0/24", "10.0.3.0/24"]
}

variable "public_subnet_cidrs" {
  type        = list(any)
  description = "The CIDR blocks to use for the public subnets"
  default     = ["10.0.101.0/24", "10.0.102.0/24", "10.0.103.0/24"]
}

variable "single_nat_gateway" {
  type        = bool
  description = "Single NAT or per NAT for subnet"
  default     = false
}

#AWS Info
variable "aws_region" {
  type    = string
  default = "us-east-2"
}

variable "default_aws_tags" {
  type        = map(string)
  description = "Default tags for AWS"
  default     = {}
}
EOF
----

. Create the `vpc.tf` file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat<<-EOF>vpc.tf
#
# Copyright (c) 2023 Red Hat, Inc.
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
module "vpc" {
  source  = "terraform-aws-modules/vpc/aws"
  version = "5.1.2"

  count = var.create_vpc ? 1 : 0
  name  = var.vpc_name
  cidr  = var.vpc_cidr_block

  azs             = local.region_azs
  private_subnets = var.multi_az ? var.private_subnet_cidrs : [var.private_subnet_cidrs[0]]
  public_subnets  = var.multi_az ? var.public_subnet_cidrs : [var.public_subnet_cidrs[0]]

  enable_nat_gateway   = true
  single_nat_gateway   = var.single_nat_gateway
  enable_dns_hostnames = true
  enable_dns_support   = true

  tags = var.additional_tags
}
EOF
----
+
You are ready to initiate Terraform.

Commit message:

OSDOCS#11879: Create cluster-admin at cluster creation - Updated CLI cluster creation process to include new parameters - Updated rosa "create cluster" command reference to include new parameters

modules/rosa-hcp-cluster-terraform-file-creation.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-hcp-creating-a-cluster-quickly-terraform.adoc
//
:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="rosa-hcp-cluster-terraform-file-creation_{context}"]
= Creating your Terraform files locally

After you set up your link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/token[offline {cluster-manager-first} token], you need to create the Terraform files locally to build your cluster. You can create these files by using the following code templates.

.Procedure

. Create the `main.tf` file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat<<-EOF>main.tf
#
# Copyright (c) 2023 Red Hat, Inc.
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = ">= 4.20.0"
    }
    rhcs = {
      version = ">= 1.6.3"
      source  = "terraform-redhat/rhcs"
    }
  }
}

# Export token using the RHCS_TOKEN environment variable
provider "rhcs" {}

provider "aws" {
  region = var.aws_region
  ignore_tags {
    key_prefixes = ["kubernetes.io/"]
  }
  default_tags {
    tags = var.default_aws_tags
  }
}

data "aws_availability_zones" "available" {}

locals {
  # Extract availability zone names for the specified region, limit it to 3 if multi az or 1 if single
  region_azs = var.multi_az ? slice([for zone in data.aws_availability_zones.available.names : format("%s", zone)], 0, 3) : slice([for zone in data.aws_availability_zones.available.names : format("%s", zone)], 0, 1)
}

resource "random_string" "random_name" {
  length  = 6
  special = false
  upper   = false
}

locals {
  worker_node_replicas = var.multi_az ? 3 : 2
  # If cluster_name is not null, use that, otherwise generate a random cluster name
  cluster_name = coalesce(var.cluster_name, "rosa-\${random_string.random_name.result}")
}

# The network validator requires an additional 60 seconds to validate Terraform clusters.
resource "time_sleep" "wait_60_seconds" {
  count = var.create_vpc ? 1 : 0
  depends_on = [module.vpc]
  create_duration = "60s"
}

module "rosa-hcp" {
  source                 = "terraform-redhat/rosa-hcp/rhcs"
  version                = "1.6.3"
  cluster_name           = local.cluster_name
  openshift_version      = var.openshift_version
  account_role_prefix    = local.cluster_name
  operator_role_prefix   = local.cluster_name
  replicas               = local.worker_node_replicas
  aws_availability_zones = local.region_azs
  create_oidc            = true
  private                = var.private_cluster
  aws_subnet_ids         = var.create_vpc ? var.private_cluster ? module.vpc[0].private_subnets : concat(module.vpc[0].public_subnets, module.vpc[0].private_subnets) : var.aws_subnet_ids
  create_account_roles   = true
  create_operator_roles  = true
# Optional: Configure a cluster administrator user <.>
# 
# Option 1: Default cluster-admin user
# Create an administrator user (cluster-admin) and automatically
# generate a password by uncommenting the following parameter:
#  create_admin_user = true
# Generated administrator credentials are displayed in terminal output.
#
# Option 2: Specify administrator username and password
# Create an administrator user and define your own password
# by uncommenting and editing the values of the following parameters:
#  admin_credentials_username = <username>
#  admin_credentials_password = <password>
    
  depends_on = [time_sleep.wait_60_seconds]
}
EOF
----
<.> Optional: Create an administrator user during cluster creation by uncommenting the appropriate parameters and editing their values if required.

. Create the `variables.tf` file by running the following command:
+
[NOTE]
====
Copy and edit this file _before_ running the command to build your cluster.
====
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat<<-EOF>variables.tf
#
# Copyright (c) 2023 Red Hat, Inc.
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
variable "openshift_version" {
  type        = string
  default     = "4.14.20"
  description = "Desired version of OpenShift for the cluster, for example '4.14.20'. If version is greater than the currently running version, an upgrade will be scheduled."
}

variable "create_vpc" {
  type        = bool
  description = "If you would like to create a new VPC, set this value to 'true'. If you do not want to create a new VPC, set this value to 'false'."
}

# ROSA Cluster info
variable "cluster_name" {
  default     = null
  type        = string
  description = "The name of the ROSA cluster to create"
}

variable "additional_tags" {
  default = {
    Terraform   = "true"
    Environment = "dev"
  }
  description = "Additional AWS resource tags"
  type        = map(string)
}

variable "multi_az" {
  type        = bool
  description = "Multi AZ Cluster for High Availability"
  default     = true
}

variable "worker_node_replicas" {
  default     = 3
  description = "Number of worker nodes to provision. Single zone clusters need at least 2 nodes, multizone clusters need at least 3 nodes"
  type        = number
}

variable "aws_subnet_ids" {
  type        = list(any)
  description = "A list of either the public or public + private subnet IDs to use for the cluster blocks to use for the cluster"
  default     = ["subnet-01234567890abcdef", "subnet-01234567890abcdef", "subnet-01234567890abcdef"]
}

variable "private_cluster" {
  type        = bool
  description = "If you want to create a private cluster, set this value to 'true'. If you want a publicly available cluster, set this value to 'false'."
}

#VPC Info
variable "vpc_name" {
  type        = string
  description = "VPC Name"
  default     = "tf-qs-vpc"
}

variable "vpc_cidr_block" {
  type        = string
  description = "value of the CIDR block to use for the VPC"
  default     = "10.0.0.0/16"
}

variable "private_subnet_cidrs" {
  type        = list(any)
  description = "The CIDR blocks to use for the private subnets"
  default     = ["10.0.1.0/24", "10.0.2.0/24", "10.0.3.0/24"]
}

variable "public_subnet_cidrs" {
  type        = list(any)
  description = "The CIDR blocks to use for the public subnets"
  default     = ["10.0.101.0/24", "10.0.102.0/24", "10.0.103.0/24"]
}

variable "single_nat_gateway" {
  type        = bool
  description = "Single NAT or per NAT for subnet"
  default     = false
}

#AWS Info
variable "aws_region" {
  type    = string
  default = "us-east-2"
}

variable "default_aws_tags" {
  type        = map(string)
  description = "Default tags for AWS"
  default     = {}
}
EOF
----

. Create the `vpc.tf` file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat<<-EOF>vpc.tf
#
# Copyright (c) 2023 Red Hat, Inc.
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
module "vpc" {
  source  = "terraform-aws-modules/vpc/aws"
  version = "5.1.2"

  count = var.create_vpc ? 1 : 0
  name  = var.vpc_name
  cidr  = var.vpc_cidr_block

  azs             = local.region_azs
  private_subnets = var.multi_az ? var.private_subnet_cidrs : [var.private_subnet_cidrs[0]]
  public_subnets  = var.multi_az ? var.public_subnet_cidrs : [var.public_subnet_cidrs[0]]

  enable_nat_gateway   = true
  single_nat_gateway   = var.single_nat_gateway
  enable_dns_hostnames = true
  enable_dns_support   = true

  tags = var.additional_tags
}
EOF
----
+
You are ready to initiate Terraform.
