modules/telco-ran-bios-tuning.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * telco_ref_design_specs/ran/telco-ran-ref-du-components.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="telco-ran-bios-tuning_{context}"]
= Host firmware tuning

New in this release::
* No reference design updates in this release

Description::
Configure system level performance.
See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-reference-cluster-configuration-for-vdu.html#ztp-du-configuring-host-firmware-requirements_sno-configure-for-vdu[Configuring host firmware for low latency and high performance] for recommended settings.
+
If Ironic inspection is enabled, the firmware setting values are available from the per-cluster `BareMetalHost` CR on the hub cluster.
You enable Ironic inspection with a label in the `spec.clusters.nodes` field in the `SiteConfig` CR that you use to install the cluster.
For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
nodes:
  - hostName: "example-node1.example.com"
    ironicInspect: "enabled"
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The {rds} reference `SiteConfig` does not enable the `ironicInspect` field by default.
====

Limits and requirements::
* Hyperthreading must be enabled

Engineering considerations::
* Tune all settings for maximum performance
+
[NOTE]
====
You can tune firmware selections for power savings at the expense of performance as required.
====

Commit message:

Adding Telco RAN RDS 4.17 doc updates

modules/telco-ran-bios-tuning.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/telco_ref_design_specs/ran/telco-ran-ref-du-components.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="telco-ran-bios-tuning_{context}"]
= Host firmware tuning

New in this release::
//CNF-2026
* You can now configure host firmware settings for managed clusters that you deploy with {ztp}.

Description::
Tune host firmware settings for optimal performance during initial cluster deployment.
The managed cluster host firmware settings are available on the hub cluster as `BareMetalHost` custom resources (CRs) that are created when you deploy the managed cluster with the `SiteConfig` CR and {ztp}.

Limits and requirements::
* Hyperthreading must be enabled

Engineering considerations::
* Tune all settings for maximum performance.

* All settings are expected to be for maximum performance unless tuned for power savings.

* You can tune host firmware for power savings at the expense of performance as required.

* Enable secure boot.
With secure boot enabled, only signed kernel modules are loaded by the kernel.
Out-of-tree drivers are not supported.
