modules/ztp-sno-siteconfig-config-reference.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-deploying-far-edge-sites.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="ztp-sno-siteconfig-config-reference_{context}"]
= {sno-caps} SiteConfig CR installation reference

.SiteConfig CR installation options for {sno} clusters
[cols="1,3", options="header"]
|====
|SiteConfig CR field
|Description

|`spec.cpuPartitioningMode`
a|Configure workload partitioning by setting the value for `cpuPartitioningMode` to `AllNodes`.
To complete the configuration, specify the `isolated` and `reserved` CPUs in the `PerformanceProfile` CR.

[NOTE]
====
Configuring workload partitioning by using the `cpuPartitioningMode` field in the `SiteConfig` CR is a Tech Preview feature in {product-title} 4.13.
====

|`metadata.name`
|Set `name` to `assisted-deployment-pull-secret` and create the `assisted-deployment-pull-secret` CR in the same namespace as the `SiteConfig` CR.

|`spec.clusterImageSetNameRef`
|Configure the image set available on the hub cluster for all the clusters in the site.
To see the list of supported versions on your hub cluster, run `oc get clusterimagesets`.

|`installConfigOverrides`
a|Set the `installConfigOverrides` field to enable or disable optional components prior to cluster installation.
[IMPORTANT]
====
Use the reference configuration as specified in the example `SiteConfig` CR.
Adding additional components back into the system might require additional reserved CPU capacity.
====

|`spec.clusters.clusterImageSetNameRef`
|Specifies the cluster image set used to deploy an individual cluster. If defined, it overrides the `spec.clusterImageSetNameRef` at site level.

|`spec.clusters.clusterLabels`
|Configure cluster labels to correspond to the binding rules in the `PolicyGenerator` or `PolicyGentemplate` CRs that you define.
`PolicyGenerator` CRs use the `policyDefaults.placement.labelSelector` field.
`PolicyGentemplate` CRs use the `spec.bindingRules` field.

For example, `acmpolicygenerator/acm-common-ranGen.yaml` applies to all clusters with `common: true` set, `acmpolicygenerator/acm-group-du-sno-ranGen.yaml` applies to all clusters with `group-du-sno: ""` set.

|`spec.clusters.crTemplates.KlusterletAddonConfig`
|Optional. Set `KlusterletAddonConfig` to `KlusterletAddonConfigOverride.yaml to override the default `KlusterletAddonConfig` that is created for the cluster.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.hostName`
|For single-node deployments, define a single host.
For three-node deployments, define three hosts.
For standard deployments, define three hosts with `role: master` and two or more hosts defined with `role: worker`.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.nodeLabels`
|Specify custom roles for your nodes in your managed clusters. These are additional roles are not used by any {product-title} components, only by the user. When you add a custom role, it can be associated with a custom machine config pool that references a specific configuration for that role. Adding custom labels or roles during installation makes the deployment process more effective and prevents the need for additional reboots after the installation is complete.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.automatedCleaningMode`
|Optional. Uncomment and set the value to `metadata` to enable the removal of the disk's partitioning table only, without fully wiping the disk. The default value is `disabled`.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bmcAddress`
|BMC address that you use to access the host. Applies to all cluster types. {ztp} supports iPXE and virtual media booting by using Redfish or IPMI protocols. To use iPXE booting, you must use {rh-rhacm} 2.8 or later. For more information about BMC addressing, see the "Additional resources" section.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bmcAddress`
a|BMC address that you use to access the host.
Applies to all cluster types.
{ztp} supports iPXE and virtual media booting by using Redfish or IPMI protocols.
To use iPXE booting, you must use {rh-rhacm} 2.8 or later.
For more information about BMC addressing, see the "Additional resources" section.
[NOTE]
====
In far edge Telco use cases, only virtual media is supported for use with {ztp}.
====

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bmcCredentialsName`
|Configure the `bmh-secret` CR that you separately create with the host BMC credentials.
When creating the `bmh-secret` CR, use the same namespace as the `SiteConfig` CR that provisions the host.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bootMode`
|Set the boot mode for the host to `UEFI`.
The default value is `UEFI`. Use `UEFISecureBoot` to enable secure boot on the host.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.rootDeviceHints`
|Specifies the device for deployment. Identifiers that are stable across reboots are recommended. For example, `wwn: <disk_wwn>` or `deviceName: /dev/disk/by-path/<device_path>`. `<by-path>` values are preferred. For a detailed list of stable identifiers, see the "About root device hints" section.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.ignitionConfigOverride`
|Optional. Use this field to assign partitions for persistent storage.
Adjust disk ID and size to the specific hardware.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.nodeNetwork`
|Configure the network settings for the node.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.nodeNetwork.config.interfaces.ipv6`
|Configure the IPv6 address for the host.
For {sno} clusters with static IP addresses, the node-specific API and Ingress IPs should be the same.
|====

Commit message:

TELCODOCS#1841: Configuring disk encryption with PCR protection

modules/ztp-sno-siteconfig-config-reference.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-deploying-far-edge-sites.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="ztp-sno-siteconfig-config-reference_{context}"]
= {sno-caps} SiteConfig CR installation reference

.SiteConfig CR installation options for {sno} clusters
[cols="1,3", options="header"]
|====
|SiteConfig CR field
|Description

|`spec.cpuPartitioningMode`
a|Configure workload partitioning by setting the value for `cpuPartitioningMode` to `AllNodes`.
To complete the configuration, specify the `isolated` and `reserved` CPUs in the `PerformanceProfile` CR.

[NOTE]
====
Configuring workload partitioning by using the `cpuPartitioningMode` field in the `SiteConfig` CR is a Tech Preview feature in {product-title} 4.13.
====

|`metadata.name`
|Set `name` to `assisted-deployment-pull-secret` and create the `assisted-deployment-pull-secret` CR in the same namespace as the `SiteConfig` CR.

|`spec.clusterImageSetNameRef`
|Configure the image set available on the hub cluster for all the clusters in the site.
To see the list of supported versions on your hub cluster, run `oc get clusterimagesets`.

|`installConfigOverrides`
a|Set the `installConfigOverrides` field to enable or disable optional components prior to cluster installation.
[IMPORTANT]
====
Use the reference configuration as specified in the example `SiteConfig` CR.
Adding additional components back into the system might require additional reserved CPU capacity.
====

|`spec.clusters.clusterImageSetNameRef`
|Specifies the cluster image set used to deploy an individual cluster. If defined, it overrides the `spec.clusterImageSetNameRef` at site level.

|`spec.clusters.clusterLabels`
|Configure cluster labels to correspond to the binding rules in the `PolicyGenerator` or `PolicyGentemplate` CRs that you define.
`PolicyGenerator` CRs use the `policyDefaults.placement.labelSelector` field.
`PolicyGentemplate` CRs use the `spec.bindingRules` field.

For example, `acmpolicygenerator/acm-common-ranGen.yaml` applies to all clusters with `common: true` set, `acmpolicygenerator/acm-group-du-sno-ranGen.yaml` applies to all clusters with `group-du-sno: ""` set.

|`spec.clusters.crTemplates.KlusterletAddonConfig`
|Optional. Set `KlusterletAddonConfig` to `KlusterletAddonConfigOverride.yaml to override the default `KlusterletAddonConfig` that is created for the cluster.

|`spec.clusters.diskEncryption`
a|Configure this field to enable disk encryption with Trusted Platform Module (TPM) and Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs) protection. For more information, see "About disk encryption with TPM and PCR protection".
[NOTE]
====
Configuring disk encryption by using the `diskEncryption` field in the `SiteConfig` CR is a Technology Preview feature in {product-title} 4.17.
====

|`spec.clusters.diskEncryption.type`
|Set the disk encryption type to `tpm2`.

|`spec.clusters.diskEncryption.tpm2`
|Configure the Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs) protection for disk encryption.

|`spec.clusters.diskEncryption.tpm2.pcrList`
|Configure the list of Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs) to be used for disk encryption. You must use PCR registers 1 and 7.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.hostName`
|For single-node deployments, define a single host.
For three-node deployments, define three hosts.
For standard deployments, define three hosts with `role: master` and two or more hosts defined with `role: worker`.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.nodeLabels`
|Specify custom roles for your nodes in your managed clusters. These are additional roles are not used by any {product-title} components, only by the user. When you add a custom role, it can be associated with a custom machine config pool that references a specific configuration for that role. Adding custom labels or roles during installation makes the deployment process more effective and prevents the need for additional reboots after the installation is complete.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.automatedCleaningMode`
|Optional. Uncomment and set the value to `metadata` to enable the removal of the disk's partitioning table only, without fully wiping the disk. The default value is `disabled`.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bmcAddress`
|BMC address that you use to access the host. Applies to all cluster types. {ztp} supports iPXE and virtual media booting by using Redfish or IPMI protocols. To use iPXE booting, you must use {rh-rhacm} 2.8 or later. For more information about BMC addressing, see the "Additional resources" section.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bmcAddress`
a|BMC address that you use to access the host.
Applies to all cluster types.
{ztp} supports iPXE and virtual media booting by using Redfish or IPMI protocols.
To use iPXE booting, you must use {rh-rhacm} 2.8 or later.
For more information about BMC addressing, see the "Additional resources" section.
[NOTE]
====
In far edge Telco use cases, only virtual media is supported for use with {ztp}.
====

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bmcCredentialsName`
|Configure the `bmh-secret` CR that you separately create with the host BMC credentials.
When creating the `bmh-secret` CR, use the same namespace as the `SiteConfig` CR that provisions the host.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.bootMode`
|Set the boot mode for the host to `UEFI`.
The default value is `UEFI`. Use `UEFISecureBoot` to enable secure boot on the host.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.rootDeviceHints`
|Specifies the device for deployment. Identifiers that are stable across reboots are recommended. For example, `wwn: <disk_wwn>` or `deviceName: /dev/disk/by-path/<device_path>`. `<by-path>` values are preferred. For a detailed list of stable identifiers, see the "About root device hints" section.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.ignitionConfigOverride`
|Optional. Use this field to assign partitions for persistent storage.
Adjust disk ID and size to the specific hardware.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.nodeNetwork`
|Configure the network settings for the node.

|`spec.clusters.nodes.nodeNetwork.config.interfaces.ipv6`
|Configure the IPv6 address for the host.
For {sno} clusters with static IP addresses, the node-specific API and Ingress IPs should be the same.
|====
