networking/cidr-range-definitions.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cidr-range-definitions"]
= CIDR range definitions
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
endif::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
:context: cidr-range-definitions

toc::[]

You must specify non-overlapping ranges for the following CIDR ranges.

[NOTE]
====
Machine CIDR ranges cannot be changed after creating your cluster.
====

ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
When specifying subnet CIDR ranges, ensure that the subnet CIDR range is within the defined Machine CIDR. You must verify that the subnet CIDR ranges allow for enough IP addresses for all intended workloads depending on which platform the cluster is hosted.
endif::[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
OVN-Kubernetes, the default network provider in {product-title} 4.14 and later versions, uses the following IP address ranges internally: `100.64.0.0/16`, `169.254.169.0/29`, `100.88.0.0/16`, `fd98::/64`, `fd69::/125`, and `fd97::/64`. If your cluster uses OVN-Kubernetes, do not include any of these IP address ranges in any other CIDR definitions in your cluster or infrastructure.
====

[id="machine-cidr-description"]
== Machine CIDR
In the Machine classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) field, you must specify the IP address range for machines or cluster nodes.
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
This range must encompass all CIDR address ranges for your virtual private cloud (VPC) subnets. Subnets must be contiguous. A minimum IP address range of 128 addresses, using the subnet prefix `/25`, is supported for single availability zone deployments. A minimum address range of 256 addresses, using the subnet prefix `/24`, is supported for deployments that use multiple availability zones.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

The default is `10.0.0.0/16`. This range must not conflict with any connected networks.

ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
[NOTE]
====
When using {hcp-title}, the static IP address `172.20.0.1` is reserved for the internal Kubernetes API address. The machine, pod, and service CIDRs ranges must not conflict with this IP address.
====
endif::[]

[id="service-cidr-description"]
== Service CIDR
In the Service CIDR field, you must specify the IP address range for services.
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
It is recommended, but not required, that the address block is the same between clusters. This will not create IP address conflicts.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
The range must be large enough to accommodate your workload. The address block must not overlap with any external service accessed from within the cluster. The default is `172.30.0.0/16`.

[id="pod-cidr-description"]
== Pod CIDR
In the pod CIDR field, you must specify the IP address range for pods.

ifdef::openshift-enterprise[]
The pod CIDR is the same as the `clusterNetwork` CIDR and the cluster CIDR.
endif::openshift-enterprise[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
It is recommended, but not required, that the address block is the same between clusters. This will not create IP address conflicts.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
The range must be large enough to accommodate your workload. The address block must not overlap with any external service accessed from within the cluster. The default is `10.128.0.0/14`.
ifdef::openshift-enterprise[]
You can expand the range after cluster installation.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* xref:../networking/cluster-network-operator.adoc#nw-operator-cr-cno-object_cluster-network-operator[Cluster Network Operator configuration]
* xref:../networking/configuring-cluster-network-range.adoc#configuring-cluster-network-range[Configuring the cluster network range]
endif::openshift-enterprise[]

[id="host-prefix-description"]
== Host Prefix
In the Host Prefix field, you must specify the subnet prefix length assigned to pods scheduled to individual machines. The host prefix determines the pod IP address pool for each machine.

ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
For example, if the host prefix is set to `/23`, each machine is assigned a `/23` subnet from the pod CIDR address range. The default is `/23`, allowing 512 cluster nodes, and 512 pods per node (both of which are beyond our maximum supported).
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

ifdef::openshift-enterprise[]
For example, if the host prefix is set to `/23`, each machine is assigned a `/23` subnet from the pod CIDR address range. The default is `/23`, allowing 510 cluster nodes, and 510 pod IP addresses per node.
endif::openshift-enterprise[]

Commit message:

OSDOCS-12060: updates for CIDR ranges due to masquerade subnet change

networking/cidr-range-definitions.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cidr-range-definitions"]
= CIDR range definitions
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
endif::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
:context: cidr-range-definitions

toc::[]

You must specify non-overlapping ranges for the following CIDR ranges.

[NOTE]
====
Machine CIDR ranges cannot be changed after creating your cluster.
====

ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
When specifying subnet CIDR ranges, ensure that the subnet CIDR range is within the defined Machine CIDR. You must verify that the subnet CIDR ranges allow for enough IP addresses for all intended workloads depending on which platform the cluster is hosted.
endif::[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
OVN-Kubernetes, the default network provider in {product-title} 4.14 and later versions, uses the following IP address ranges internally: `100.64.0.0/16`, `169.254.169.0/29`, `100.88.0.0/16`, `fd98::/64`, `fd69::/125`, and `fd97::/64`. If your cluster uses OVN-Kubernetes, do not include any of these IP address ranges in any other CIDR definitions in your cluster or infrastructure.

For {product-title} 4.17 and later versions, clusters use `169.254.0.0/17` for IPv4 and `fd69::/112` for IPv6 as the default masquerade subnet. These ranges should also be avoided by users. For upgraded clusters, there is no change to the default masquerade subnet.
====

[id="machine-cidr-description"]
== Machine CIDR
In the Machine classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) field, you must specify the IP address range for machines or cluster nodes.
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
This range must encompass all CIDR address ranges for your virtual private cloud (VPC) subnets. Subnets must be contiguous. A minimum IP address range of 128 addresses, using the subnet prefix `/25`, is supported for single availability zone deployments. A minimum address range of 256 addresses, using the subnet prefix `/24`, is supported for deployments that use multiple availability zones.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

The default is `10.0.0.0/16`. This range must not conflict with any connected networks.

ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
[NOTE]
====
When using {hcp-title}, the static IP address `172.20.0.1` is reserved for the internal Kubernetes API address. The machine, pod, and service CIDRs ranges must not conflict with this IP address.
====
endif::[]

[id="service-cidr-description"]
== Service CIDR
In the Service CIDR field, you must specify the IP address range for services.
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
It is recommended, but not required, that the address block is the same between clusters. This will not create IP address conflicts.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
The range must be large enough to accommodate your workload. The address block must not overlap with any external service accessed from within the cluster. The default is `172.30.0.0/16`.

[id="pod-cidr-description"]
== Pod CIDR
In the pod CIDR field, you must specify the IP address range for pods.

ifdef::openshift-enterprise[]
The pod CIDR is the same as the `clusterNetwork` CIDR and the cluster CIDR.
endif::openshift-enterprise[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
It is recommended, but not required, that the address block is the same between clusters. This will not create IP address conflicts.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
The range must be large enough to accommodate your workload. The address block must not overlap with any external service accessed from within the cluster. The default is `10.128.0.0/14`.
ifdef::openshift-enterprise[]
You can expand the range after cluster installation.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* xref:../networking/cluster-network-operator.adoc#nw-operator-cr-cno-object_cluster-network-operator[Cluster Network Operator configuration]
* xref:../networking/configuring-cluster-network-range.adoc#configuring-cluster-network-range[Configuring the cluster network range]
endif::openshift-enterprise[]

[id="host-prefix-description"]
== Host Prefix
In the Host Prefix field, you must specify the subnet prefix length assigned to pods scheduled to individual machines. The host prefix determines the pod IP address pool for each machine.

ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
For example, if the host prefix is set to `/23`, each machine is assigned a `/23` subnet from the pod CIDR address range. The default is `/23`, allowing 512 cluster nodes, and 512 pods per node (both of which are beyond our maximum supported).
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

ifdef::openshift-enterprise[]
For example, if the host prefix is set to `/23`, each machine is assigned a `/23` subnet from the pod CIDR address range. The default is `/23`, allowing 510 cluster nodes, and 510 pod IP addresses per node.
endif::openshift-enterprise[]
