virt/getting_started/virt-getting-started.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="virt-getting-started"]
= Getting started with {VirtProductName}
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: virt-getting-started

toc::[]

You can explore the features and functionalities of {VirtProductName} by installing and configuring a basic environment.

[NOTE]
====
Cluster configuration procedures require `cluster-admin` privileges.
====

[id="planning-and-installing-virt_{context}"]
== Planning and installing {VirtProductName}

Plan and install {VirtProductName} on an {product-title} cluster:

// Hiding in ROSA/OSD, not supported
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../installing/installing_bare_metal/preparing-to-install-on-bare-metal.adoc#virt-planning-bare-metal-cluster-for-ocp-virt_preparing-to-install-on-bare-metal[Plan your bare metal cluster for {VirtProductName}].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/install/preparing-cluster-for-virt.adoc#preparing-cluster-for-virt[Prepare your cluster for {VirtProductName}].
* xref:../../virt/install/installing-virt.adoc#virt-installing-virt-operator_installing-virt[Install the {VirtProductName} Operator].
* xref:../../virt/getting_started/virt-using-the-cli-tools.adoc#installing-virtctl_virt-using-the-cli-tools[Install the `virtctl` command line interface (CLI) tool].


[discrete]
[id="additional-resources_planning-and-installing"]
[role="_additional-resources"]
=== Planning and installation resources

* xref:../../virt/install/preparing-cluster-for-virt.adoc#virt-about-storage-volumes-for-vm-disks_preparing-cluster-for-virt[About storage volumes for virtual machine disks].
* xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[Using a CSI-enabled storage provider].
* xref:../../virt/storage/virt-configuring-local-storage-with-hpp.adoc#virt-configuring-local-storage-with-hpp[Configuring local storage for virtual machines].
// Hiding in ROSA/OSD, as feature is TP
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator.adoc#installing-the-kubernetes-nmstate-operator-cli[Installing the Kubernetes NMState Operator].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/advanced_vm_management/virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms.adoc#virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms[Specifying nodes for virtual machines].
* xref:../../virt/getting_started/virt-using-the-cli-tools.adoc#virt-virtctl-commands_virt-using-the-cli-tools[`Virtctl` commands].

[id="creating-and-managing-vms_{context}"]
== Creating and managing virtual machines

Create a virtual machine (VM):

* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/creating_vms_rh/virt-creating-vms-from-rh-images-overview.adoc#virt-creating-vms-from-rh-images-overview[Create a VM from a Red Hat image].
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
+
You can create a VM by using a Red Hat template or an xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/creating_vms_rh/virt-creating-vms-from-instance-types.adoc#virt-creating-vms-from-instance-types[instance type].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
+
You can create a VM by using a Red Hat template.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/creating_vms_custom/virt-creating-vms-from-custom-images-overview.adoc#virt-creating-vms-from-custom-images-overview[Create a VM from a custom image].
+
You can create a VM by importing a custom image from a container registry or a web page, by uploading an image from your local machine, or by cloning a persistent volume claim (PVC).

Connect a VM to a secondary network:

// Linux bridge and SR-IOV not supported in ROSA/OSD
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge[Linux bridge network].
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network[Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network].
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov[Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) network].
+
[NOTE]
====
VMs are connected to the pod network by default.
====
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network[Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network].
+
[NOTE]
====
VMs are connected to the pod network by default.
====
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

Connect to a VM:

* Connect to the xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#serial-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[serial console] or xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#vnc-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[VNC console] of a VM.
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-ssh.adoc#virt-accessing-vm-ssh[Connect to a VM by using SSH].
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#desktop-viewer_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[Connect to the desktop viewer for Windows VMs].

Manage a VM:

* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-controlling-vm-states.adoc#virt-controlling-vm-states[Manage a VM by using the web console].
* xref:../../virt/getting_started/virt-using-the-cli-tools.adoc#virt-virtctl-commands_virt-using-the-cli-tools[Manage a VM by using the `virtctl` CLI tool].
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-exporting-vms.adoc#virt-accessing-exported-vm-manifests_virt-exporting-vms[Export a VM].

[id="next-steps_{context}"]
== Next steps

* xref:../../virt/post_installation_configuration/virt-post-install-config.adoc#virt-post-install-config[Review postinstallation configuration options].
* xref:../../virt/storage/virt-storage-config-overview.adoc#virt-storage-config-overview[Configure storage options and automatic boot source updates].
* xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-monitoring-overview.adoc#virt-monitoring-overview[Learn about monitoring and health checks].
* xref:../../virt/live_migration/virt-about-live-migration.adoc#virt-about-live-migration[Learn about live migration].
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-kubevirt.adoc#installing-oadp-kubevirt[Back up and restore VMs by using the {oadp-first}].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/6994974[Tune and scale your cluster].

Commit message:

[WIP] CNV#32740: adding guided tour info to getting started page

virt/getting_started/virt-getting-started.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="virt-getting-started"]
= Getting started with {VirtProductName}
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: virt-getting-started

toc::[]

You can explore the features and functionalities of {VirtProductName} by installing and configuring a basic environment.

[NOTE]
====
Cluster configuration procedures require `cluster-admin` privileges.
====

// Hiding in ROSA/OSD for now - unsure if supported
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
[id="tours-quick-starts_{context}"]
== Tours and quick starts

You can start exploring {VirtProductName} by taking tours in the {product-title} web console.

[discrete]
[id="virt-intro-tour_{context}"]
=== Getting started tour

This short guided tour introduces several key aspects of using {VirtProductName}. There are two ways to start the tour:

* On the *Welcome to {VirtProductName}* dialog, click *Start Tour*.
* Go to *Virtualization* -> *Overview* -> *Settings* -> *User* -> *Getting started resources* and click *Guided tour*.

[discrete]
[id="virt-quick-starts_{context}"]
=== Quick starts

Quick start tours are available for several {VirtProductName} features. To access quick starts, complete the following steps:

. Click the *Help* icon *?* in the menu bar on the header of the {product-title} web console.
. Select *Quick Starts*. 

You can filter the available tours by entering the keyword `virtualization` in the *Filter* field.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

[id="planning-and-installing-virt_{context}"]
== Planning and installing {VirtProductName}

Plan and install {VirtProductName} on an {product-title} cluster:

// Hiding in ROSA/OSD, not supported
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../installing/installing_bare_metal/preparing-to-install-on-bare-metal.adoc#virt-planning-bare-metal-cluster-for-ocp-virt_preparing-to-install-on-bare-metal[Plan your bare metal cluster for {VirtProductName}].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/install/preparing-cluster-for-virt.adoc#preparing-cluster-for-virt[Prepare your cluster for {VirtProductName}].
* xref:../../virt/install/installing-virt.adoc#virt-installing-virt-operator_installing-virt[Install the {VirtProductName} Operator].
* xref:../../virt/getting_started/virt-using-the-cli-tools.adoc#installing-virtctl_virt-using-the-cli-tools[Install the `virtctl` command line interface (CLI) tool].


[discrete]
[id="additional-resources_planning-and-installing"]
[role="_additional-resources"]
=== Planning and installation resources

* xref:../../virt/install/preparing-cluster-for-virt.adoc#virt-about-storage-volumes-for-vm-disks_preparing-cluster-for-virt[About storage volumes for virtual machine disks].
* xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[Using a CSI-enabled storage provider].
* xref:../../virt/storage/virt-configuring-local-storage-with-hpp.adoc#virt-configuring-local-storage-with-hpp[Configuring local storage for virtual machines].
// Hiding in ROSA/OSD, as feature is TP
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator.adoc#installing-the-kubernetes-nmstate-operator-cli[Installing the Kubernetes NMState Operator].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/advanced_vm_management/virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms.adoc#virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms[Specifying nodes for virtual machines].
* xref:../../virt/getting_started/virt-using-the-cli-tools.adoc#virt-virtctl-commands_virt-using-the-cli-tools[`Virtctl` commands].

[id="creating-and-managing-vms_{context}"]
== Creating and managing virtual machines

Create a virtual machine (VM):

* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/creating_vms_rh/virt-creating-vms-from-rh-images-overview.adoc#virt-creating-vms-from-rh-images-overview[Create a VM from a Red Hat image].
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
+
You can create a VM by using a Red Hat template or an xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/creating_vms_rh/virt-creating-vms-from-instance-types.adoc#virt-creating-vms-from-instance-types[instance type].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
+
You can create a VM by using a Red Hat template.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/creating_vms_custom/virt-creating-vms-from-custom-images-overview.adoc#virt-creating-vms-from-custom-images-overview[Create a VM from a custom image].
+
You can create a VM by importing a custom image from a container registry or a web page, by uploading an image from your local machine, or by cloning a persistent volume claim (PVC).

Connect a VM to a secondary network:

// Linux bridge and SR-IOV not supported in ROSA/OSD
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge[Linux bridge network].
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network[Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network].
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-sriov[Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) network].
+
[NOTE]
====
VMs are connected to the pod network by default.
====
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network[Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network].
+
[NOTE]
====
VMs are connected to the pod network by default.
====
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

Connect to a VM:

* Connect to the xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#serial-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[serial console] or xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#vnc-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[VNC console] of a VM.
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-ssh.adoc#virt-accessing-vm-ssh[Connect to a VM by using SSH].
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#desktop-viewer_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[Connect to the desktop viewer for Windows VMs].

Manage a VM:

* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-controlling-vm-states.adoc#virt-controlling-vm-states[Manage a VM by using the web console].
* xref:../../virt/getting_started/virt-using-the-cli-tools.adoc#virt-virtctl-commands_virt-using-the-cli-tools[Manage a VM by using the `virtctl` CLI tool].
* xref:../../virt/virtual_machines/virt-exporting-vms.adoc#virt-accessing-exported-vm-manifests_virt-exporting-vms[Export a VM].

[id="next-steps_{context}"]
== Next steps

* xref:../../virt/post_installation_configuration/virt-post-install-config.adoc#virt-post-install-config[Review postinstallation configuration options].
* xref:../../virt/storage/virt-storage-config-overview.adoc#virt-storage-config-overview[Configure storage options and automatic boot source updates].
* xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-monitoring-overview.adoc#virt-monitoring-overview[Learn about monitoring and health checks].
* xref:../../virt/live_migration/virt-about-live-migration.adoc#virt-about-live-migration[Learn about live migration].
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-kubevirt.adoc#installing-oadp-kubevirt[Back up and restore VMs by using the {oadp-first}].
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/6994974[Tune and scale your cluster].
