observability/otel/otel-collector/otel-collector-exporters.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="otel-collector-exporters"]
= Exporters
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: otel-collector-exporters

toc::[]

Exporters send data to one or more back ends or destinations. An exporter can be push or pull based. By default, no exporters are configured. One or more exporters must be configured. Exporters can support one or more data sources. Exporters might be used with their default settings, but many exporters require configuration to specify at least the destination and security settings.

[id="otlp-exporter_{context}"]
== OTLP Exporter

The OTLP gRPC Exporter exports traces and metrics by using the OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP).

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled OTLP Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      otlp:
        endpoint: tempo-ingester:4317 # <1>
        tls: # <2>
          ca_file: ca.pem
          cert_file: cert.pem
          key_file: key.pem
          insecure: false # <3>
          insecure_skip_verify: false # # <4>
          reload_interval: 1h # <5>
          server_name_override: <name> # <6>
        headers: # <7>
          X-Scope-OrgID: "dev"
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [otlp]
        metrics:
          exporters: [otlp]
# ...
----
<1> The OTLP gRPC endpoint. If the `+https://+` scheme is used, then client transport security is enabled and overrides the `insecure` setting in the `tls`.
<2> The client-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> Disables client transport security when set to `true`. The default value is `false` by default.
<4> Skips verifying the certificate when set to `true`. The default value is `false`.
<5> Specifies the time interval at which the certificate is reloaded. If the value is not set, the certificate is never reloaded. The `reload_interval` accepts a string containing valid units of time such as `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h`.
<6> Overrides the virtual host name of authority such as the authority header field in requests. You can use this for testing.
<7> Headers are sent for every request performed during an established connection.

[id="otlp-http-exporter_{context}"]
== OTLP HTTP Exporter

The OTLP HTTP Exporter exports traces and metrics by using the OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP).

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled OTLP Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      otlphttp:
        endpoint: http://tempo-ingester:4318 # <1>
        tls: # <2>
        headers: # <3>
          X-Scope-OrgID: "dev"
        disable_keep_alives: false <4>

    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [otlphttp]
        metrics:
          exporters: [otlphttp]
# ...
----
<1> The OTLP HTTP endpoint. If the `+https://+` scheme is used, then client transport security is enabled and overrides the `insecure` setting in the `tls`.
<2> The client side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> Headers are sent in every HTTP request.
<4> If true, disables HTTP keep-alives. It will only use the connection to the server for a single HTTP request.

[id="debug-exporter_{context}"]
== Debug Exporter

The Debug Exporter prints traces and metrics to the standard output.

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Debug Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      debug:
        verbosity: detailed # <1>
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [logging]
        metrics:
          exporters: [logging]
# ...
----
<1> Verbosity of the debug export: `detailed` or `normal` or `basic`. When set to `detailed`, pipeline data is verbosely logged. Defaults to `normal`.

[id="load-balancing-exporter_{context}"]
== Load Balancing Exporter

The Load Balancing Exporter consistently exports spans, metrics, and logs according to the `routing_key` configuration.

:FeatureName: The Load Balancing Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Load Balancing Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      loadbalancing:
        routing_key: "service" # <1>
        protocol:
          otlp: # <2>
            timeout: 1s
        resolver: # <3>
          static: # <4>
            hostnames:
            - backend-1:4317
            - backend-2:4317
          dns: # <5>
            hostname: otelcol-headless.observability.svc.cluster.local
          k8s: # <6>
            service: lb-svc.kube-public
            ports:
              - 15317
              - 16317
# ...
----
<1> The `routing_key: service` exports spans for the same service name to the same Collector instance to provide accurate aggregation. The `routing_key: traceID` exports spans based on their `traceID`. The implicit default is `traceID` based routing.
<2> The OTLP is the only supported load-balancing protocol. All options of the OTLP exporter are supported.
<3> You can configure only one resolver.
<4> The static resolver distributes the load across the listed endpoints.
<5> You can use the DNS resolver only with a Kubernetes headless service.
<6> The Kubernetes resolver is recommended.

[id="prometheus-exporter_{context}"]
== Prometheus Exporter

The Prometheus Exporter exports metrics in the Prometheus or OpenMetrics formats.

:FeatureName: The Prometheus Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Prometheus Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      prometheus:
        endpoint: 0.0.0.0:8889 # <1>
        tls: # <2>
          ca_file: ca.pem
          cert_file: cert.pem
          key_file: key.pem
        namespace: prefix # <3>
        const_labels: # <4>
          label1: value1
        enable_open_metrics: true # <5>
        resource_to_telemetry_conversion: # <6>
          enabled: true
        metric_expiration: 180m # <7>
        add_metric_suffixes: false # <8>
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          exporters: [prometheus]
# ...
----
<1> The network endpoint where the metrics are exposed. The {OTELOperator} automatically exposes the port specified in the `endpoint` field to the `<instance_name>-collector` service.
<2> The server-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> If set, exports metrics under the provided value.
<4> Key-value pair labels that are applied for every exported metric.
<5> If `true`, metrics are exported by using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format and only for histogram and monotonic sum metrics such as `counter`. Disabled by default.
<6> If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes are converted to metric labels. Disabled by default.
<7> Defines how long metrics are exposed without updates. The default is `5m`.
<8> Adds the metrics types and units suffixes. Must be disabled if the monitor tab in the Jaeger console is enabled. The default is `true`.


[NOTE]
====
When the `spec.observability.metrics.enableMetrics` field in the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource (CR) is set to `true`, the `OpenTelemetryCollector` CR automatically creates a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` or `PodMonitor` CR to enable Prometheus to scrape your metrics.
====

[id="prometheus-remote-write-exporter_{context}"]
== Prometheus Remote Write Exporter

The Prometheus Remote Write Exporter exports metrics to compatible back ends.

:FeatureName: The Prometheus Remote Write Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Prometheus Remote Write Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      prometheusremotewrite:
        endpoint: "https://my-prometheus:7900/api/v1/push" # <1>
        tls: # <2>
          ca_file: ca.pem
          cert_file: cert.pem
          key_file: key.pem
        target_info: true # <3>
        export_created_metric: true # <4>
        max_batch_size_bytes: 3000000 # <5>
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          exporters: [prometheusremotewrite]
# ...
----
<1> Endpoint for sending the metrics.
<2> Server-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> When set to `true`, creates a `target_info` metric for each resource metric.
<4> When set to `true`, exports a `_created` metric for the Summary, Histogram, and Monotonic Sum metric points.
<5> Maximum size of the batch of samples that is sent to the remote write endpoint. Exceeding this value results in batch splitting. The default value is `3000000`, which is approximately 2.861 megabytes.

[WARNING]
====
* This exporter drops non-cumulative monotonic, histogram, and summary OTLP metrics.

* You must enable the `--web.enable-remote-write-receiver` feature flag on the remote Prometheus instance. Without it, pushing the metrics to the instance using this exporter fails.
====

[id="kafka-exporter_{context}"]
== Kafka Exporter

The Kafka Exporter exports logs, metrics, and traces to Kafka. This exporter uses a synchronous producer that blocks and does not batch messages. You must use it with batch and queued retry processors for higher throughput and resiliency.

:FeatureName: The Kafka Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Kafka Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      kafka:
        brokers: ["localhost:9092"] # <1>
        protocol_version: 2.0.0 # <2>
        topic: otlp_spans # <3>
        auth:
          plain_text: # <4>
            username: example
            password: example
          tls: # <5>
            ca_file: ca.pem
            cert_file: cert.pem
            key_file: key.pem
            insecure: false # <6>
            server_name_override: kafka.example.corp # <7>
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [kafka]
# ...
----
<1> The list of Kafka brokers. The default is `+localhost:9092+`.
<2> The Kafka protocol version. For example, `+2.0.0+`. This is a required field.
<3> The name of the Kafka topic to read from. The following are the defaults: `+otlp_spans+` for traces, `+otlp_metrics+` for metrics, `+otlp_logs+` for logs.
<4> The plain text authentication configuration. If omitted, plain text authentication is disabled.
<5> The client-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to the TLS certificates. If omitted, TLS authentication is disabled.
<6> Disables verifying the server's certificate chain and host name. The default is `+false+`.
<7> ServerName indicates the name of the server requested by the client to support virtual hosting.

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_otel-collector-exporters_{context}"]
== Additional resources
* link:https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otlp/[OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) documentation]

Commit message:

OBSDOCS-1229: Correct the name of the mentioned exporter

observability/otel/otel-collector/otel-collector-exporters.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="otel-collector-exporters"]
= Exporters
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: otel-collector-exporters

toc::[]

Exporters send data to one or more back ends or destinations. An exporter can be push or pull based. By default, no exporters are configured. One or more exporters must be configured. Exporters can support one or more data sources. Exporters might be used with their default settings, but many exporters require configuration to specify at least the destination and security settings.

[id="otlp-exporter_{context}"]
== OTLP Exporter

The OTLP gRPC Exporter exports traces and metrics by using the OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP).

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled OTLP Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      otlp:
        endpoint: tempo-ingester:4317 # <1>
        tls: # <2>
          ca_file: ca.pem
          cert_file: cert.pem
          key_file: key.pem
          insecure: false # <3>
          insecure_skip_verify: false # # <4>
          reload_interval: 1h # <5>
          server_name_override: <name> # <6>
        headers: # <7>
          X-Scope-OrgID: "dev"
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [otlp]
        metrics:
          exporters: [otlp]
# ...
----
<1> The OTLP gRPC endpoint. If the `+https://+` scheme is used, then client transport security is enabled and overrides the `insecure` setting in the `tls`.
<2> The client-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> Disables client transport security when set to `true`. The default value is `false` by default.
<4> Skips verifying the certificate when set to `true`. The default value is `false`.
<5> Specifies the time interval at which the certificate is reloaded. If the value is not set, the certificate is never reloaded. The `reload_interval` accepts a string containing valid units of time such as `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h`.
<6> Overrides the virtual host name of authority such as the authority header field in requests. You can use this for testing.
<7> Headers are sent for every request performed during an established connection.

[id="otlp-http-exporter_{context}"]
== OTLP HTTP Exporter

The OTLP HTTP Exporter exports traces and metrics by using the OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP).

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled OTLP Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      otlphttp:
        endpoint: http://tempo-ingester:4318 # <1>
        tls: # <2>
        headers: # <3>
          X-Scope-OrgID: "dev"
        disable_keep_alives: false <4>

    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [otlphttp]
        metrics:
          exporters: [otlphttp]
# ...
----
<1> The OTLP HTTP endpoint. If the `+https://+` scheme is used, then client transport security is enabled and overrides the `insecure` setting in the `tls`.
<2> The client side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> Headers are sent in every HTTP request.
<4> If true, disables HTTP keep-alives. It will only use the connection to the server for a single HTTP request.

[id="debug-exporter_{context}"]
== Debug Exporter

The Debug Exporter prints traces and metrics to the standard output.

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Debug Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      debug:
        verbosity: detailed # <1>
        sampling_initial: 5 # <2>
        sampling_thereafter: 200 # <3>
        use_internal_logger: true # <4>
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [debug]
        metrics:
          exporters: [debug]
# ...
----
<1> Verbosity of the debug export: `detailed`, `normal`, or `basic`. When set to `detailed`, pipeline data are verbosely logged. Defaults to `normal`.
<2> Initial number of messages logged per second. The default value is `2` messages per second.
<3> Sampling rate after the initial number of messages, the value in `sampling_initial`, has been logged. Disabled by default with the default `1` value. Sampling is enabled with values greater than `1`. For more information, see the page for the link:https://pkg.go.dev/go.uber.org/zap/zapcore?utm_source=godoc#NewSamplerWithOptions[sampler function in the `zapcore` package] on the Go Project's website.
<4> When set to `true`, enables output from the Collector's internal logger for the exporter.

[id="load-balancing-exporter_{context}"]
== Load Balancing Exporter

The Load Balancing Exporter consistently exports spans, metrics, and logs according to the `routing_key` configuration.

:FeatureName: The Load Balancing Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Load Balancing Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      loadbalancing:
        routing_key: "service" # <1>
        protocol:
          otlp: # <2>
            timeout: 1s
        resolver: # <3>
          static: # <4>
            hostnames:
            - backend-1:4317
            - backend-2:4317
          dns: # <5>
            hostname: otelcol-headless.observability.svc.cluster.local
          k8s: # <6>
            service: lb-svc.kube-public
            ports:
              - 15317
              - 16317
# ...
----
<1> The `routing_key: service` exports spans for the same service name to the same Collector instance to provide accurate aggregation. The `routing_key: traceID` exports spans based on their `traceID`. The implicit default is `traceID` based routing.
<2> The OTLP is the only supported load-balancing protocol. All options of the OTLP exporter are supported.
<3> You can configure only one resolver.
<4> The static resolver distributes the load across the listed endpoints.
<5> You can use the DNS resolver only with a Kubernetes headless service.
<6> The Kubernetes resolver is recommended.

[id="prometheus-exporter_{context}"]
== Prometheus Exporter

The Prometheus Exporter exports metrics in the Prometheus or OpenMetrics formats.

:FeatureName: The Prometheus Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Prometheus Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      prometheus:
        endpoint: 0.0.0.0:8889 # <1>
        tls: # <2>
          ca_file: ca.pem
          cert_file: cert.pem
          key_file: key.pem
        namespace: prefix # <3>
        const_labels: # <4>
          label1: value1
        enable_open_metrics: true # <5>
        resource_to_telemetry_conversion: # <6>
          enabled: true
        metric_expiration: 180m # <7>
        add_metric_suffixes: false # <8>
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          exporters: [prometheus]
# ...
----
<1> The network endpoint where the metrics are exposed. The {OTELOperator} automatically exposes the port specified in the `endpoint` field to the `<instance_name>-collector` service.
<2> The server-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> If set, exports metrics under the provided value.
<4> Key-value pair labels that are applied for every exported metric.
<5> If `true`, metrics are exported by using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format and only for histogram and monotonic sum metrics such as `counter`. Disabled by default.
<6> If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes are converted to metric labels. Disabled by default.
<7> Defines how long metrics are exposed without updates. The default is `5m`.
<8> Adds the metrics types and units suffixes. Must be disabled if the monitor tab in the Jaeger console is enabled. The default is `true`.


[NOTE]
====
When the `spec.observability.metrics.enableMetrics` field in the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource (CR) is set to `true`, the `OpenTelemetryCollector` CR automatically creates a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` or `PodMonitor` CR to enable Prometheus to scrape your metrics.
====

[id="prometheus-remote-write-exporter_{context}"]
== Prometheus Remote Write Exporter

The Prometheus Remote Write Exporter exports metrics to compatible back ends.

:FeatureName: The Prometheus Remote Write Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Prometheus Remote Write Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      prometheusremotewrite:
        endpoint: "https://my-prometheus:7900/api/v1/push" # <1>
        tls: # <2>
          ca_file: ca.pem
          cert_file: cert.pem
          key_file: key.pem
        target_info: true # <3>
        export_created_metric: true # <4>
        max_batch_size_bytes: 3000000 # <5>
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          exporters: [prometheusremotewrite]
# ...
----
<1> Endpoint for sending the metrics.
<2> Server-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
<3> When set to `true`, creates a `target_info` metric for each resource metric.
<4> When set to `true`, exports a `_created` metric for the Summary, Histogram, and Monotonic Sum metric points.
<5> Maximum size of the batch of samples that is sent to the remote write endpoint. Exceeding this value results in batch splitting. The default value is `3000000`, which is approximately 2.861 megabytes.

[WARNING]
====
* This exporter drops non-cumulative monotonic, histogram, and summary OTLP metrics.

* You must enable the `--web.enable-remote-write-receiver` feature flag on the remote Prometheus instance. Without it, pushing the metrics to the instance using this exporter fails.
====

[id="kafka-exporter_{context}"]
== Kafka Exporter

The Kafka Exporter exports logs, metrics, and traces to Kafka. This exporter uses a synchronous producer that blocks and does not batch messages. You must use it with batch and queued retry processors for higher throughput and resiliency.

:FeatureName: The Kafka Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with an enabled Kafka Exporter
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  config: |
    exporters:
      kafka:
        brokers: ["localhost:9092"] # <1>
        protocol_version: 2.0.0 # <2>
        topic: otlp_spans # <3>
        auth:
          plain_text: # <4>
            username: example
            password: example
          tls: # <5>
            ca_file: ca.pem
            cert_file: cert.pem
            key_file: key.pem
            insecure: false # <6>
            server_name_override: kafka.example.corp # <7>
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [kafka]
# ...
----
<1> The list of Kafka brokers. The default is `+localhost:9092+`.
<2> The Kafka protocol version. For example, `+2.0.0+`. This is a required field.
<3> The name of the Kafka topic to read from. The following are the defaults: `+otlp_spans+` for traces, `+otlp_metrics+` for metrics, `+otlp_logs+` for logs.
<4> The plain text authentication configuration. If omitted, plain text authentication is disabled.
<5> The client-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to the TLS certificates. If omitted, TLS authentication is disabled.
<6> Disables verifying the server's certificate chain and host name. The default is `+false+`.
<7> ServerName indicates the name of the server requested by the client to support virtual hosting.

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_otel-collector-exporters_{context}"]
== Additional resources
* link:https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otlp/[OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) documentation]
